docs/identity/saas-apps/postman-tutorial.md, before:

---
title: 'Tutorial: Azure Active Directory single sign-on (SSO) integration with Postman | Microsoft Docs'
description: Learn how to configure single sign-on between Azure Active Directory and Postman.
services: active-directory
author: jeevansd
manager: CelesteDG
ms.reviewer: CelesteDG
ms.service: active-directory
ms.subservice: saas-app-tutorial
ms.workload: identity
ms.topic: tutorial
ms.date: 06/04/2021
ms.author: jeedes

---

# Tutorial: Azure Active Directory single sign-on (SSO) integration with Postman

In this tutorial, you'll learn how to integrate Postman with Azure Active Directory (Azure AD). When you integrate Postman with Azure AD, you can:

* Control in Azure AD who has access to Postman.
* Enable your users to be automatically signed-in to Postman with their Azure AD accounts.
* Manage your accounts in one central location - the Azure portal.

## Prerequisites

To get started, you need the following items:

* An Azure AD subscription. If you don't have a subscription, you can get a [free account](https://azure.microsoft.com/free/).
* Postman single sign-on (SSO) enabled subscription.

## Scenario description

In this tutorial, you configure and test Azure AD SSO in a test environment.

* Postman supports **SP and IDP** initiated SSO.
* Postman supports **Just In Time** user provisioning.

> [!NOTE]
> Identifier of this application is a fixed string value so only one instance can be configured in one tenant.

## Add Postman from the gallery

To configure the integration of Postman into Azure AD, you need to add Postman from the gallery to your list of managed SaaS apps.

1. Sign in to the Azure portal using either a work or school account, or a personal Microsoft account.
1. On the left navigation pane, select the **Azure Active Directory** service.
1. Navigate to **Enterprise Applications** and then select **All Applications**.
1. To add new application, select **New application**.
1. In the **Add from the gallery** section, type **Postman** in the search box.
1. Select **Postman** from results panel and then add the app. Wait a few seconds while the app is added to your tenant.

## Configure and test Azure AD SSO for Postman

Configure and test Azure AD SSO with Postman using a test user called **B.Simon**. For SSO to work, you need to establish a link relationship between an Azure AD user and the related user in Postman.

To configure and test Azure AD SSO with Postman, perform the following steps:

1. **[Configure Azure AD SSO](#configure-azure-ad-sso)** - to enable your users to use this feature.
    1. **[Create an Azure AD test user](#create-an-azure-ad-test-user)** - to test Azure AD single sign-on with B.Simon.
    1. **[Assign the Azure AD test user](#assign-the-azure-ad-test-user)** - to enable B.Simon to use Azure AD single sign-on.
1. **[Configure Postman SSO](#configure-postman-sso)** - to configure the single sign-on settings on application side.
    1. **[Create Postman test user](#create-postman-test-user)** - to have a counterpart of B.Simon in Postman that is linked to the Azure AD representation of user.
1. **[Test SSO](#test-sso)** - to verify whether the configuration works.

## Configure Azure AD SSO

Follow these steps to enable Azure AD SSO in the Azure portal.

1. In the Azure portal, on the **Postman** application integration page, find the **Manage** section and select **single sign-on**.
1. On the **Select a single sign-on method** page, select **SAML**.
1. On the **Set up single sign-on with SAML** page, click the pencil icon for **Basic SAML Configuration** to edit the settings.

   ![Edit Basic SAML Configuration](common/edit-urls.png)

1. On the **Basic SAML Configuration** section, if you wish to configure the application in **IDP** initiated mode, perform the following step:

    In the **Reply URL** text box, type a URL using the following pattern:
    `https://identity.getpostman.com/sso/<INSTANCE_NAME>/callback`

1. Click **Set additional URLs** and perform the following step if you wish to configure the application in **SP** initiated mode:

    In the **Sign-on URL** text box, type a URL using the following pattern:
    `https://identity.getpostman.com/sso/<INSTANCE_NAME>/init`

	> [!NOTE]
	> These values are not real. Update these values with the actual Reply URL and Sign-on URL. Contact [Postman Client support team](mailto:help@getpostman.com) to get these values. You can also refer to the patterns shown in the **Basic SAML Configuration** section in the Azure portal.

1. Your Postman application expects the SAML assertions in a specific format, which requires you to add custom attribute mappings to your SAML token attributes configuration. The following screenshot shows an example for this. The default value of **Unique User Identifier** is **user.userprincipalname** but Postman expects this to be mapped with the user's email address. For that you can use **user.mail** attribute from the list or use the appropriate attribute value based on your organization configuration.

    ![image](common/default-attributes.png)

1. On the **Set up single sign-on with SAML** page, in the **SAML Signing Certificate** section,  find **Federation Metadata XML** and select **Download** to download the certificate and save it on your computer.

	![The Certificate download link](common/metadataxml.png)

1. On the **Set up Postman** section, copy the appropriate URL(s) based on your requirement.

	![Copy configuration URLs](common/copy-configuration-urls.png)

### Create an Azure AD test user

In this section, you'll create a test user in the Azure portal called B.Simon.

1. From the left pane in the Azure portal, select **Azure Active Directory**, select **Users**, and then select **All users**.
1. Select **New user** at the top of the screen.
1. In the **User** properties, follow these steps:
   1. In the **Name** field, enter `B.Simon`.  
   1. In the **User name** field, enter the username@companydomain.extension. For example, `B.Simon@contoso.com`.
   1. Select the **Show password** check box, and then write down the value that's displayed in the **Password** box.
   1. Click **Create**.

### Assign the Azure AD test user

In this section, you'll enable B.Simon to use Azure single sign-on by granting access to Postman.

1. In the Azure portal, select **Enterprise Applications**, and then select **All applications**.
1. In the applications list, select **Postman**.
1. In the app's overview page, find the **Manage** section and select **Users and groups**.
1. Select **Add user**, then select **Users and groups** in the **Add Assignment** dialog.
1. In the **Users and groups** dialog, select **B.Simon** from the Users list, then click the **Select** button at the bottom of the screen.
1. If you are expecting a role to be assigned to the users, you can select it from the **Select a role** dropdown. If no role has been set up for this app, you see "Default Access" role selected.
1. In the **Add Assignment** dialog, click the **Assign** button.

## Configure Postman SSO

To configure single sign-on on the **Postman** side, you need to upload the downloaded **Federation Metadata XML** and update the appropriate copied URLs from the Azure portal at Postman. To learn how to configure Postman SSO, see the [step-by-step guide](https://learning.postman.com/docs/administration/sso/admin-sso/).

### Create Postman test user

In this section, a user called Britta Simon is created in Postman. Postman supports just-in-time user provisioning, which can be enabled by selecting  the checkbox to [Automatically add new users](https://learning.postman.com/docs/administration/sso/admin-sso/#automatically-adding-new-users). With this, if a user doesn't already exist in Postman, a new one is created after authentication.

## Test SSO 

In this section, you test your Azure AD single sign-on configuration with following options. 

#### SP initiated:

* Click on **Test this application** in Azure portal. This will redirect to Postman Sign on URL where you can initiate the login flow.  

* Go to Postman Sign-on URL directly and initiate the login flow from there.

#### IDP initiated:

* Click on **Test this application** in Azure portal and you should be automatically signed in to the Postman for which you set up the SSO. 

You can also use Microsoft My Apps to test the application in any mode. When you click the Postman tile in the My Apps, if configured in SP mode you would be redirected to the application sign on page for initiating the login flow and if configured in IDP mode, you should be automatically signed in to the Postman for which you set up the SSO. For more information about the My Apps, see [Introduction to the My Apps](https://support.microsoft.com/account-billing/sign-in-and-start-apps-from-the-my-apps-portal-2f3b1bae-0e5a-4a86-a33e-876fbd2a4510).

## Next steps

Once you configure Postman you can enforce session control, which protects exfiltration and infiltration of your organization’s sensitive data in real time. Session control extends from Conditional Access. [Learn how to enforce session control with Microsoft Defender for Cloud Apps](/cloud-app-security/proxy-deployment-aad).

Commit message:

Product Backlog Item 1793274: SaaS App Tutorial: Postman govt cloud note

docs/identity/saas-apps/postman-tutorial.md, after:

---
title: 'Tutorial: Azure AD SSO integration with Postman'
description: Learn how to configure single sign-on between Azure Active Directory and Postman.
services: active-directory
author: jeevansd
manager: CelesteDG
ms.reviewer: CelesteDG
ms.service: active-directory
ms.subservice: saas-app-tutorial
ms.workload: identity
ms.topic: tutorial
ms.date: 02/24/2022
ms.author: jeedes

---

# Tutorial: Azure AD SSO integration with Postman

In this tutorial, you'll learn how to integrate Postman with Azure Active Directory (Azure AD). When you integrate Postman with Azure AD, you can:

* Control in Azure AD who has access to Postman.
* Enable your users to be automatically signed-in to Postman with their Azure AD accounts.
* Manage your accounts in one central location - the Azure portal.

## Prerequisites

To get started, you need the following items:

* An Azure AD subscription. If you don't have a subscription, you can get a [free account](https://azure.microsoft.com/free/).
* Postman single sign-on (SSO) enabled subscription.

> [!NOTE]
> This integration is also available to use from Azure AD US Government Cloud environment. You can find this application in the Azure AD US Government Cloud Application Gallery and configure it in the same way as you do from public cloud.

## Scenario description

In this tutorial, you configure and test Azure AD SSO in a test environment.

* Postman supports **SP and IDP** initiated SSO.
* Postman supports **Just In Time** user provisioning.

> [!NOTE]
> Identifier of this application is a fixed string value so only one instance can be configured in one tenant.

## Add Postman from the gallery

To configure the integration of Postman into Azure AD, you need to add Postman from the gallery to your list of managed SaaS apps.

1. Sign in to the Azure portal using either a work or school account, or a personal Microsoft account.
1. On the left navigation pane, select the **Azure Active Directory** service.
1. Navigate to **Enterprise Applications** and then select **All Applications**.
1. To add new application, select **New application**.
1. In the **Add from the gallery** section, type **Postman** in the search box.
1. Select **Postman** from results panel and then add the app. Wait a few seconds while the app is added to your tenant.

## Configure and test Azure AD SSO for Postman

Configure and test Azure AD SSO with Postman using a test user called **B.Simon**. For SSO to work, you need to establish a link relationship between an Azure AD user and the related user in Postman.

To configure and test Azure AD SSO with Postman, perform the following steps:

1. **[Configure Azure AD SSO](#configure-azure-ad-sso)** - to enable your users to use this feature.
    1. **[Create an Azure AD test user](#create-an-azure-ad-test-user)** - to test Azure AD single sign-on with B.Simon.
    1. **[Assign the Azure AD test user](#assign-the-azure-ad-test-user)** - to enable B.Simon to use Azure AD single sign-on.
1. **[Configure Postman SSO](#configure-postman-sso)** - to configure the single sign-on settings on application side.
    1. **[Create Postman test user](#create-postman-test-user)** - to have a counterpart of B.Simon in Postman that is linked to the Azure AD representation of user.
1. **[Test SSO](#test-sso)** - to verify whether the configuration works.

## Configure Azure AD SSO

Follow these steps to enable Azure AD SSO in the Azure portal.

1. In the Azure portal, on the **Postman** application integration page, find the **Manage** section and select **single sign-on**.
1. On the **Select a single sign-on method** page, select **SAML**.
1. On the **Set up single sign-on with SAML** page, click the pencil icon for **Basic SAML Configuration** to edit the settings.

   ![Edit Basic SAML Configuration](common/edit-urls.png)

1. On the **Basic SAML Configuration** section, if you wish to configure the application in **IDP** initiated mode, perform the following step:

    In the **Reply URL** text box, type a URL using the following pattern:
    `https://identity.getpostman.com/sso/<INSTANCE_NAME>/callback`

1. Click **Set additional URLs** and perform the following step if you wish to configure the application in **SP** initiated mode:

    In the **Sign-on URL** text box, type a URL using the following pattern:
    `https://identity.getpostman.com/sso/<INSTANCE_NAME>/init`

	> [!NOTE]
	> These values are not real. Update these values with the actual Reply URL and Sign-on URL. Contact [Postman Client support team](mailto:help@getpostman.com) to get these values. You can also refer to the patterns shown in the **Basic SAML Configuration** section in the Azure portal.

1. Your Postman application expects the SAML assertions in a specific format, which requires you to add custom attribute mappings to your SAML token attributes configuration. The following screenshot shows an example for this. The default value of **Unique User Identifier** is **user.userprincipalname** but Postman expects this to be mapped with the user's email address. For that you can use **user.mail** attribute from the list or use the appropriate attribute value based on your organization configuration.

    ![image](common/default-attributes.png)

1. On the **Set up single sign-on with SAML** page, in the **SAML Signing Certificate** section,  find **Federation Metadata XML** and select **Download** to download the certificate and save it on your computer.

	![The Certificate download link](common/metadataxml.png)

1. On the **Set up Postman** section, copy the appropriate URL(s) based on your requirement.

	![Copy configuration URLs](common/copy-configuration-urls.png)

### Create an Azure AD test user

In this section, you'll create a test user in the Azure portal called B.Simon.

1. From the left pane in the Azure portal, select **Azure Active Directory**, select **Users**, and then select **All users**.
1. Select **New user** at the top of the screen.
1. In the **User** properties, follow these steps:
   1. In the **Name** field, enter `B.Simon`.  
   1. In the **User name** field, enter the username@companydomain.extension. For example, `B.Simon@contoso.com`.
   1. Select the **Show password** check box, and then write down the value that's displayed in the **Password** box.
   1. Click **Create**.

### Assign the Azure AD test user

In this section, you'll enable B.Simon to use Azure single sign-on by granting access to Postman.

1. In the Azure portal, select **Enterprise Applications**, and then select **All applications**.
1. In the applications list, select **Postman**.
1. In the app's overview page, find the **Manage** section and select **Users and groups**.
1. Select **Add user**, then select **Users and groups** in the **Add Assignment** dialog.
1. In the **Users and groups** dialog, select **B.Simon** from the Users list, then click the **Select** button at the bottom of the screen.
1. If you are expecting a role to be assigned to the users, you can select it from the **Select a role** dropdown. If no role has been set up for this app, you see "Default Access" role selected.
1. In the **Add Assignment** dialog, click the **Assign** button.

## Configure Postman SSO

To configure single sign-on on the **Postman** side, you need to upload the downloaded **Federation Metadata XML** and update the appropriate copied URLs from the Azure portal at Postman. To learn how to configure Postman SSO, see the [step-by-step guide](https://learning.postman.com/docs/administration/sso/admin-sso/).

### Create Postman test user

In this section, a user called Britta Simon is created in Postman. Postman supports just-in-time user provisioning, which can be enabled by selecting  the checkbox to [Automatically add new users](https://learning.postman.com/docs/administration/sso/admin-sso/#automatically-adding-new-users). With this, if a user doesn't already exist in Postman, a new one is created after authentication.

## Test SSO 

In this section, you test your Azure AD single sign-on configuration with following options. 

#### SP initiated:

* Click on **Test this application** in Azure portal. This will redirect to Postman Sign on URL where you can initiate the login flow.  

* Go to Postman Sign-on URL directly and initiate the login flow from there.

#### IDP initiated:

* Click on **Test this application** in Azure portal and you should be automatically signed in to the Postman for which you set up the SSO. 

You can also use Microsoft My Apps to test the application in any mode. When you click the Postman tile in the My Apps, if configured in SP mode you would be redirected to the application sign on page for initiating the login flow and if configured in IDP mode, you should be automatically signed in to the Postman for which you set up the SSO. For more information about the My Apps, see [Introduction to the My Apps](https://support.microsoft.com/account-billing/sign-in-and-start-apps-from-the-my-apps-portal-2f3b1bae-0e5a-4a86-a33e-876fbd2a4510).

## Next steps

Once you configure Postman you can enforce session control, which protects exfiltration and infiltration of your organization’s sensitive data in real time. Session control extends from Conditional Access. [Learn how to enforce session control with Microsoft Defender for Cloud Apps](/cloud-app-security/proxy-deployment-aad).
