docs/identity/saas-apps/tribeloo-tutorial.md, before:

---
title: 'Tutorial: Azure Active Directory single sign-on (SSO) integration with Tribeloo | Microsoft Docs'
description: Learn how to configure single sign-on between Azure Active Directory and Tribeloo.
services: active-directory
author: jeevansd
manager: CelesteDG
ms.reviewer: CelesteDG
ms.service: active-directory
ms.subservice: saas-app-tutorial
ms.workload: identity
ms.topic: tutorial
ms.date: 09/02/2021
ms.author: jeedes

---

# Tutorial: Azure Active Directory single sign-on (SSO) integration with Tribeloo

In this tutorial, you'll learn how to integrate Tribeloo with Azure Active Directory (Azure AD). When you integrate Tribeloo with Azure AD, you can:

* Control in Azure AD who has access to Tribeloo.
* Enable your users to be automatically signed-in to Tribeloo with their Azure AD accounts.
* Manage your accounts in one central location - the Azure portal.

## Prerequisites

To get started, you need the following items:

* An Azure AD subscription. If you don't have a subscription, you can get a [free account](https://azure.microsoft.com/free/).
* Tribeloo single sign-on (SSO) enabled subscription.

## Scenario description

In this tutorial, you configure and test Azure AD SSO in a test environment.

* Tribeloo supports **SP** initiated SSO.
* Tribeloo supports [Automated user provisioning](tribeloo-provisioning-tutorial.md).

## Adding Tribeloo from the gallery

To configure the integration of Tribeloo into Azure AD, you need to add Tribeloo from the gallery to your list of managed SaaS apps.

1. Sign in to the Azure portal using either a work or school account, or a personal Microsoft account.
1. On the left navigation pane, select the **Azure Active Directory** service.
1. Navigate to **Enterprise Applications** and then select **All Applications**.
1. To add new application, select **New application**.
1. In the **Add from the gallery** section, type **Tribeloo** in the search box.
1. Select **Tribeloo** from results panel and then add the app. Wait a few seconds while the app is added to your tenant.

## Configure and test Azure AD SSO for Tribeloo

Configure and test Azure AD SSO with Tribeloo using a test user called **B.Simon**. For SSO to work, you need to establish a link relationship between an Azure AD user and the related user in Tribeloo.

To configure and test Azure AD SSO with Tribeloo, perform the following steps:

1. **[Configure Azure AD SSO](#configure-azure-ad-sso)** - to enable your users to use this feature.
    1. **[Create an Azure AD test user](#create-an-azure-ad-test-user)** - to test Azure AD single sign-on with B.Simon.
    1. **[Assign the Azure AD test user](#assign-the-azure-ad-test-user)** - to enable B.Simon to use Azure AD single sign-on.
1. **[Configure Tribeloo SSO](#configure-tribeloo-sso)** - to configure the single sign-on settings on application side.
    1. **[Create Tribeloo test user](#create-tribeloo-test-user)** - to have a counterpart of B.Simon in Tribeloo that is linked to the Azure AD representation of user.
1. **[Test SSO](#test-sso)** - to verify whether the configuration works.

## Configure Azure AD SSO

Follow these steps to enable Azure AD SSO in the Azure portal.

1. In the Azure portal, on the **Tribeloo** application integration page, find the **Manage** section and select **single sign-on**.
1. On the **Select a single sign-on method** page, select **SAML**.
1. On the **Set up single sign-on with SAML** page, click the pencil icon for **Basic SAML Configuration** to edit the settings.

   ![Edit Basic SAML Configuration](common/edit-urls.png)

1. On the **Basic SAML Configuration** section, enter the values for the following fields:

    In the **Sign-on URL** text box, type the URL:
    `https://app.tribeloo.com/login`

1. On the **Set up single sign-on with SAML** page, in the **SAML Signing Certificate** section,  find **Certificate (Base64)** and select **Download** to download the certificate and save it on your computer.

	![The Certificate download link](common/certificatebase64.png)

1. On the **Set up Tribeloo** section, copy the appropriate URL(s) based on your requirement.

	![Copy configuration URLs](common/copy-configuration-urls.png)

### Create an Azure AD test user

In this section, you'll create a test user in the Azure portal called B.Simon.

1. From the left pane in the Azure portal, select **Azure Active Directory**, select **Users**, and then select **All users**.
1. Select **New user** at the top of the screen.
1. In the **User** properties, follow these steps:
   1. In the **Name** field, enter `B.Simon`.  
   1. In the **User name** field, enter the username@companydomain.extension. For example, `B.Simon@contoso.com`.
   1. Select the **Show password** check box, and then write down the value that's displayed in the **Password** box.
   1. Click **Create**.

### Assign the Azure AD test user

In this section, you'll enable B.Simon to use Azure single sign-on by granting access to Tribeloo.

1. In the Azure portal, select **Enterprise Applications**, and then select **All applications**.
1. In the applications list, select **Tribeloo**.
1. In the app's overview page, find the **Manage** section and select **Users and groups**.
1. Select **Add user**, then select **Users and groups** in the **Add Assignment** dialog.
1. In the **Users and groups** dialog, select **B.Simon** from the Users list, then click the **Select** button at the bottom of the screen.
1. If you are expecting a role to be assigned to the users, you can select it from the **Select a role** dropdown. If no role has been set up for this app, you see "Default Access" role selected.
1. In the **Add Assignment** dialog, click the **Assign** button.

## Configure Tribeloo SSO

To configure single sign-on on **Tribeloo** side, you need to send the downloaded **Certificate (Base64)** and appropriate copied URLs from Azure portal to [Tribeloo support team](mailto:support@tribeloo.com). They set this setting to have the SAML SSO connection set properly on both sides.

### Create Tribeloo test user

In this section, you create a user called Britta Simon in Tribeloo. Work with [Tribeloo support team](mailto:support@tribeloo.com) to add the users in the Tribeloo platform. Users must be created and activated before you use single sign-on.

Tribeloo also supports automatic user provisioning, you can find more details [here](./tribeloo-provisioning-tutorial.md) on how to configure automatic user provisioning.

## Test SSO 

In this section, you test your Azure AD single sign-on configuration with following options. 

* Click on **Test this application** in Azure portal. This will redirect to Tribeloo Sign-on URL where you can initiate the login flow. 

* Go to Tribeloo Sign-on URL directly and initiate the login flow from there.

* You can use Microsoft My Apps. When you click the Tribeloo tile in the My Apps, this will redirect to Tribeloo Sign-on URL. For more information about the My Apps, see [Introduction to the My Apps](https://support.microsoft.com/account-billing/sign-in-and-start-apps-from-the-my-apps-portal-2f3b1bae-0e5a-4a86-a33e-876fbd2a4510).

## Next steps

Once you configure Tribeloo you can enforce session control, which protects exfiltration and infiltration of your organization’s sensitive data in real time. Session control extends from Conditional Access. [Learn how to enforce session control with Microsoft Defender for Cloud Apps](/cloud-app-security/proxy-deployment-any-app).

Commit message:

FortiWeb Web Application Firewall and Tribeloo note add

docs/identity/saas-apps/tribeloo-tutorial.md, after:

---
title: 'Tutorial: Azure AD SSO integration with Tribeloo'
description: Learn how to configure single sign-on between Azure Active Directory and Tribeloo.
services: active-directory
author: jeevansd
manager: CelesteDG
ms.reviewer: CelesteDG
ms.service: active-directory
ms.subservice: saas-app-tutorial
ms.workload: identity
ms.topic: tutorial
ms.date: 03/11/2021
ms.author: jeedes

---

# Tutorial: Azure AD SSO integration with Tribeloo

In this tutorial, you'll learn how to integrate Tribeloo with Azure Active Directory (Azure AD). When you integrate Tribeloo with Azure AD, you can:

* Control in Azure AD who has access to Tribeloo.
* Enable your users to be automatically signed-in to Tribeloo with their Azure AD accounts.
* Manage your accounts in one central location - the Azure portal.

## Prerequisites

To get started, you need the following items:

* An Azure AD subscription. If you don't have a subscription, you can get a [free account](https://azure.microsoft.com/free/).
* Tribeloo single sign-on (SSO) enabled subscription.

> [!NOTE]
> This integration is also available to use from Azure AD US Government Cloud environment. You can find this application in the Azure AD US Government Cloud Application Gallery and configure it in the same way as you do from public cloud.

## Scenario description

In this tutorial, you configure and test Azure AD SSO in a test environment.

* Tribeloo supports **SP** initiated SSO.
* Tribeloo supports [Automated user provisioning](tribeloo-provisioning-tutorial.md).

## Adding Tribeloo from the gallery

To configure the integration of Tribeloo into Azure AD, you need to add Tribeloo from the gallery to your list of managed SaaS apps.

1. Sign in to the Azure portal using either a work or school account, or a personal Microsoft account.
1. On the left navigation pane, select the **Azure Active Directory** service.
1. Navigate to **Enterprise Applications** and then select **All Applications**.
1. To add new application, select **New application**.
1. In the **Add from the gallery** section, type **Tribeloo** in the search box.
1. Select **Tribeloo** from results panel and then add the app. Wait a few seconds while the app is added to your tenant.

## Configure and test Azure AD SSO for Tribeloo

Configure and test Azure AD SSO with Tribeloo using a test user called **B.Simon**. For SSO to work, you need to establish a link relationship between an Azure AD user and the related user in Tribeloo.

To configure and test Azure AD SSO with Tribeloo, perform the following steps:

1. **[Configure Azure AD SSO](#configure-azure-ad-sso)** - to enable your users to use this feature.
    1. **[Create an Azure AD test user](#create-an-azure-ad-test-user)** - to test Azure AD single sign-on with B.Simon.
    1. **[Assign the Azure AD test user](#assign-the-azure-ad-test-user)** - to enable B.Simon to use Azure AD single sign-on.
1. **[Configure Tribeloo SSO](#configure-tribeloo-sso)** - to configure the single sign-on settings on application side.
    1. **[Create Tribeloo test user](#create-tribeloo-test-user)** - to have a counterpart of B.Simon in Tribeloo that is linked to the Azure AD representation of user.
1. **[Test SSO](#test-sso)** - to verify whether the configuration works.

## Configure Azure AD SSO

Follow these steps to enable Azure AD SSO in the Azure portal.

1. In the Azure portal, on the **Tribeloo** application integration page, find the **Manage** section and select **single sign-on**.
1. On the **Select a single sign-on method** page, select **SAML**.
1. On the **Set up single sign-on with SAML** page, click the pencil icon for **Basic SAML Configuration** to edit the settings.

   ![Edit Basic SAML Configuration](common/edit-urls.png)

1. On the **Basic SAML Configuration** section, enter the values for the following fields:

    In the **Sign-on URL** text box, type the URL:
    `https://app.tribeloo.com/login`

1. On the **Set up single sign-on with SAML** page, in the **SAML Signing Certificate** section,  find **Certificate (Base64)** and select **Download** to download the certificate and save it on your computer.

	![The Certificate download link](common/certificatebase64.png)

1. On the **Set up Tribeloo** section, copy the appropriate URL(s) based on your requirement.

	![Copy configuration URLs](common/copy-configuration-urls.png)

### Create an Azure AD test user

In this section, you'll create a test user in the Azure portal called B.Simon.

1. From the left pane in the Azure portal, select **Azure Active Directory**, select **Users**, and then select **All users**.
1. Select **New user** at the top of the screen.
1. In the **User** properties, follow these steps:
   1. In the **Name** field, enter `B.Simon`.  
   1. In the **User name** field, enter the username@companydomain.extension. For example, `B.Simon@contoso.com`.
   1. Select the **Show password** check box, and then write down the value that's displayed in the **Password** box.
   1. Click **Create**.

### Assign the Azure AD test user

In this section, you'll enable B.Simon to use Azure single sign-on by granting access to Tribeloo.

1. In the Azure portal, select **Enterprise Applications**, and then select **All applications**.
1. In the applications list, select **Tribeloo**.
1. In the app's overview page, find the **Manage** section and select **Users and groups**.
1. Select **Add user**, then select **Users and groups** in the **Add Assignment** dialog.
1. In the **Users and groups** dialog, select **B.Simon** from the Users list, then click the **Select** button at the bottom of the screen.
1. If you are expecting a role to be assigned to the users, you can select it from the **Select a role** dropdown. If no role has been set up for this app, you see "Default Access" role selected.
1. In the **Add Assignment** dialog, click the **Assign** button.

## Configure Tribeloo SSO

To configure single sign-on on **Tribeloo** side, you need to send the downloaded **Certificate (Base64)** and appropriate copied URLs from Azure portal to [Tribeloo support team](mailto:support@tribeloo.com). They set this setting to have the SAML SSO connection set properly on both sides.

### Create Tribeloo test user

In this section, you create a user called Britta Simon in Tribeloo. Work with [Tribeloo support team](mailto:support@tribeloo.com) to add the users in the Tribeloo platform. Users must be created and activated before you use single sign-on.

Tribeloo also supports automatic user provisioning, you can find more details [here](./tribeloo-provisioning-tutorial.md) on how to configure automatic user provisioning.

## Test SSO 

In this section, you test your Azure AD single sign-on configuration with following options. 

* Click on **Test this application** in Azure portal. This will redirect to Tribeloo Sign-on URL where you can initiate the login flow. 

* Go to Tribeloo Sign-on URL directly and initiate the login flow from there.

* You can use Microsoft My Apps. When you click the Tribeloo tile in the My Apps, this will redirect to Tribeloo Sign-on URL. For more information about the My Apps, see [Introduction to the My Apps](https://support.microsoft.com/account-billing/sign-in-and-start-apps-from-the-my-apps-portal-2f3b1bae-0e5a-4a86-a33e-876fbd2a4510).

## Next steps

Once you configure Tribeloo you can enforce session control, which protects exfiltration and infiltration of your organization’s sensitive data in real time. Session control extends from Conditional Access. [Learn how to enforce session control with Microsoft Defender for Cloud Apps](/cloud-app-security/proxy-deployment-any-app).
