docs/external-id/direct-federation.md, before:

---
title: Add a SAML/WS-Fed identity provider
description: Set up direct federation with SAML 2.0 or WS-Fed identity providers so users can sign in with work accounts. Understand attributes and claims for federation.
ms.service: entra-external-id
ms.topic: how-to
ms.date: 05/07/2025
ms.author: cmulligan
author: csmulligan
manager: dougeby
ms.collection: M365-identity-device-management
ms.custom: it-pro, has-azure-ad-ps-ref, azure-ad-ref-level-one-done, seo-july-2024, sfi-image-nochange
#customer intent: As an IT admin setting up federation with SAML/WS-Fed identity providers, I want to configure the required attributes and claims for the SAML 2.0 or WS-Fed protocol, so that guest users can sign in to my Microsoft Entra tenant using their own organizational account.
---

# Add federation with SAML/WS-Fed identity providers

[!INCLUDE [applies-to-workforce-external](./includes/applies-to-workforce-external.md)]

Your Microsoft Entra tenant can be directly federated with external organizations that use a SAML or WS-Fed identity provider (IdP). Users from the external organization can then use their own IdP-managed accounts to sign in to your apps or resources, either during invitation redemption or self-service sign-up, without having to create new Microsoft Entra credentials. The user is redirected to their IdP when signing up or signing in to your app, and then returned to Microsoft Entra once they successfully sign in. 

## Prerequisites

- Review the configuration considerations in [SAML/WS-Fed identity providers](direct-federation-overview.md).
- A workforce tenant or an [external tenant](customers/how-to-create-external-tenant-portal.md).

## How to configure SAML/WS-Fed IdP federation

### Step 1: Determine if the partner needs to update their DNS text records

Use the following steps to determine if the partner needs to update their DNS records to enable federation with you. 

1. Check the partner's IdP passive authentication URL to see if the domain matches the target domain or a host within the target domain. In other words, when setting up federation for `fabrikam.com`:

   - If the passive authentication endpoint is `https://fabrikam.com` or `https://sts.fabrikam.com/adfs` (a host in the same domain), no DNS changes are needed.
   - If the passive authentication endpoint is `https://fabrikamconglomerate.com/adfs` or `https://fabrikam.co.uk/adfs`, the domain doesn't match the fabrikam.com domain, so the partner needs to add a text record for the authentication URL to their DNS configuration.

1. If DNS changes are needed based on the previous step, ask the partner to add a TXT record to their domain's DNS records, like the following example:

   `fabrikam.com.  IN   TXT   DirectFedAuthUrl=https://fabrikamconglomerate.com/adfs`

### Step 2: Configure the partner organization’s IdP

Next, your partner organization needs to configure their IdP with the required claims and relying party trusts. For federation to work properly, Microsoft Entra External ID requires the external IdP to send certain attributes and claims, which must be configured at the external IdP.

> [!NOTE]
> To illustrate how to configure a SAML/WS-Fed IdP for federation, we use Active Directory Federation Services (AD FS) as an example. See the article [Configure SAML/WS-Fed IdP federation with AD FS](direct-federation-adfs.md), which gives examples of how to configure AD FS as a SAML 2.0 or WS-Fed IdP in preparation for federation.

#### To configure a SAML 2.0 identity provider

Microsoft Entra External ID requires the SAML 2.0 response from the external IdP to include specific attributes and claims. The necessary attributes and claims can be configured at the external IdP by either:

- Linking to the online security token service XML file, or
- Manually entering the values

Refer to the following tables for the required values.

> [!NOTE]
> Ensure the value matches the cloud for which you're setting up external federation.

**Table 1. Required attributes for the SAML 2.0 response from the IdP.**

|Attribute                |Value for a workforce tenant                   |Value for an external tenant                |
|-------------------------|-----------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------|
|AssertionConsumerService |`https://login.microsoftonline.com/login.srf`  |`https://<tenantID>.ciamlogin.com/login.srf`|
|Audience                 |`https://login.microsoftonline.com/<tenant ID>/` (Recommended) Replace `<tenant ID>` with the tenant ID of the Microsoft Entra tenant you're setting up federation with.<br></br> In the SAML request sent by Microsoft Entra ID for external federations, the Issuer URL is a tenanted endpoint (for example, `https://login.microsoftonline.com/<tenant ID>/`). For any new federations, we recommend that all our partners set the audience of the SAML or WS-Fed based IdP to a tenanted endpoint. Any existing federations configured with the global endpoint (for example, `urn:federation:MicrosoftOnline`) continue to work, but new federations stop working if your external IdP is expecting a global issuer URL in the SAML request sent by Microsoft Entra ID.      |`https://login.microsoftonline.com/<tenant ID>/`<br>Replace `<tenant ID>` with the tenant ID of the Microsoft Entra tenant you're setting up federation with.      |
|Issuer                   |The issuer URI of the partner's IdP, for example `http://www.example.com/exk10l6w90DHM0yi...`    |The issuer URI of the partner's IdP, for example `http://www.example.com/exk10l6w90DHM0yi...` |


**Table 2. Required claims for the SAML 2.0 token issued by the IdP.**

|Attribute Name                                                        |Value                                                  |
|----------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------|
|NameID Format                                                         |`urn:oasis:names:tc:SAML:2.0:nameid-format:persistent` |
|`http://schemas.xmlsoap.org/ws/2005/05/identity/claims/emailaddress`  | The user's email address                              |

#### To configure a WS-Fed identity provider

Microsoft Entra External ID requires the WS-Fed message from the external IdP to include specific attributes and claims. The necessary attributes and claims can be configured at the external IdP by either:

- Linking to the online security token service XML file, or
- Manually entering the values

> [!NOTE]
> Currently, the two WS-Fed providers that have been tested for compatibility with Microsoft Entra ID are AD FS and Shibboleth.

##### Required WS-Fed attributes and claims

The following tables show requirements for specific attributes and claims that must be configured at the third-party WS-Fed IdP. To set up federation, the following attributes must be received in the WS-Fed message from the IdP. These attributes can be configured by linking to the online security token service XML file or by entering them manually.

Refer to the following tables for the required values.

> [!NOTE]
> Ensure the value matches the cloud for which you're setting up external federation.

**Table 3. Required attributes in the WS-Fed message from the IdP.**
 
|Attribute               |Value for a workforce tenant                 |Value for an external tenant                |
|------------------------|---------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------|
|PassiveRequestorEndpoint|`https://login.microsoftonline.com/login.srf`|`https://<tenantID>.ciamlogin.com/login.srf`|
|Audience                |`https://login.microsoftonline.com/<tenant ID>/` (Recommended) Replace `<tenant ID>` with the tenant ID of the Microsoft Entra tenant you're setting up federation with.<br></br> In the SAML request sent by Microsoft Entra ID for external federations, the Issuer URL is a tenanted endpoint (for example, `https://login.microsoftonline.com/<tenant ID>/`). For any new federations, we recommend that all our partners set the audience of the SAML or WS-Fed based IdP to a tenanted endpoint. Any existing federations configured with the global endpoint (for example, `urn:federation:MicrosoftOnline`) continue to work, but new federations stop working if your external IdP is expecting a global issuer URL in the SAML request sent by Microsoft Entra ID.          |`https://login.microsoftonline.com/<tenant ID>/` <br>Replace `<tenant ID>` with the tenant ID of the Microsoft Entra tenant you're setting up federation with. |
|Issuer                   |The issuer URI of the partner's IdP, for example `http://www.example.com/exk10l6w90DHM0yi...`   |The issuer URI of the partner's IdP, for example `http://www.example.com/exk10l6w90DHM0yi...` |

**Table 4. Required claims for the WS-Fed token issued by the IdP.**

|Attribute  |Value  |
|---------|---------|
|ImmutableID     |`http://schemas.microsoft.com/LiveID/Federation/2008/05/ImmutableID`         |
|emailaddress     |`http://schemas.xmlsoap.org/ws/2005/05/identity/claims/emailaddress`         |

<a name='step-3-configure-samlws-fed-idp-federation-in-azure-ad'></a>

### Step 3: Configure SAML/WS-Fed IdP federation in Microsoft Entra External ID

Next, configure federation with the IdP configured in step 1 in Microsoft Entra External ID. You can use either the Microsoft Entra admin center or the [Microsoft Graph API](/graph/api/resources/samlorwsfedexternaldomainfederation). It might take 5-10 minutes before the federation policy takes effect. During this time, don't attempt to complete self-service sign-up or redeem an invitation for the federation domain. The following attributes are required:

- Issuer URI of the partner's IdP
- Passive authentication endpoint of partner IdP (only https is supported)
- Certificate

#### To add the IdP to your tenant in the Microsoft Entra admin center


1. Sign in to the [Microsoft Entra admin center](https://entra.microsoft.com) as at least an [External Identity Provider Administrator](~/identity/role-based-access-control/permissions-reference.md#external-identity-provider-administrator).
1. If you have access to multiple tenants, use the **Settings** icon :::image type="icon" source="media/common/admin-center-settings-icon.png" border="false"::: in the top menu and switch to your tenant from the **Directories** menu.
1. Browse to **Entra ID** > **External Identities** > **All identity providers**.
1. Select the **Custom** tab, and then select **Add new** > **SAML/WS-Fed**.

   :::image type="content" source="media/direct-federation/new-saml-wsfed-idp.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing button for adding a new SAML or WS-Fed IdP." lightbox="media/direct-federation/new-saml-wsfed-idp.png":::

1. On the **New SAML/WS-Fed IdP** page, enter the following:
   - **Display name** - Enter a name to help you identify the partner's IdP.
   - **Identity provider protocol** - Select **SAML** or **WS-Fed**.
   - **Domain name of federating IdP** - Enter your partner’s IdP target domain name for federation. During this initial configuration, enter just one domain name. You can add more domains later.

    :::image type="content" source="media/direct-federation/new-saml-wsfed-idp-parse.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing the new SAML or WS-Fed IdP page.":::

1. Select a method for populating metadata. If you have a file that contains the metadata, you can automatically populate the fields by selecting **Parse metadata file** and browsing for the file. Or, you can select **Input metadata manually** and enter the following information:

   - The **Issuer URI** of the partner's SAML IdP, or the **Entity ID** of the partner's WS-Fed IdP.
   - The **Passive authentication endpoint** of the partner's SAML IdP, or the **Passive requestor endpoint** of the partner's WS-Fed IdP.
   - **Certificate** - The signing certificate ID.
   - **Metadata URL** - The location of the IdP's metadata for automatic renewal of the signing certificate.

   :::image type="content" source="media/direct-federation/new-saml-wsfed-idp-input.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing metadata fields.":::

   > [!NOTE]
   > Metadata URL is optional. However, we strongly recommend it. If you provide the metadata URL, Microsoft Entra ID can automatically renew the signing certificate when it expires. If the certificate is rotated for any reason before the expiration time or if you don't provide a metadata URL, Microsoft Entra ID is unable to renew it. In this case, you need to update the signing certificate manually.

1. Select **Save**. The identity provider is added to the **SAML/WS-Fed identity providers** list.

      :::image type="content" source="media/direct-federation/new-saml-wsfed-idp-list.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing the SAML/WS-Fed identity provider list with the new entry." lightbox="media/direct-federation/new-saml-wsfed-idp-list.png":::

1. (Optional) To add more domain names to this federating identity provider:
   
   1. Select the link in the **Domains** column.

      :::image type="content" source="media/direct-federation/new-saml-wsfed-idp-add-domain.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing the link for adding domains to the SAML/WS-Fed identity provider." lightbox="media/direct-federation/new-saml-wsfed-idp-add-domain.png":::

   1. Next to **Domain name of federating IdP**, type the domain name, and then select **Add**. Repeat for each domain you want to add. When you're finished, select **Done**.

      :::image type="content" source="media/direct-federation/add-domain.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing the Add button in the domain details pane.":::
   
#### To configure federation using the Microsoft Graph API

You can use the Microsoft Graph API [samlOrWsFedExternalDomainFederation](/graph/api/resources/samlorwsfedexternaldomainfederation?view=graph-rest-beta&preserve-view=true) resource type to set up federation with an identity provider that supports either the SAML or WS-Fed protocol.

<a name='step-4-test-samlws-fed-idp-federation-in-azure-ad'></a>

### Step 4: Configure redemption order (B2B collaboration in workforce tenants)

If you're configuring federation in your workforce tenant for B2B collaboration with a verified domain, make sure the federated IdP is used first during invitation redemption. [Configure the **Redemption order** settings](cross-tenant-access-settings-b2b-collaboration.yml) in your cross-tenant access settings for inbound B2B collaboration. Move **SAML/WS-Fed identity providers** to the top of the **Primary identity providers** list to prioritize redemption with the federated IdP.

You can test your federation setup by inviting a new B2B guest user. For details, see [Add Microsoft Entra B2B collaboration users in the Microsoft Entra admin center](add-users-administrator.yml).

> [!NOTE]
> You can configure the invitation redemption order using the Microsoft Graph REST API (beta version). See [Example 2: Update default invitation redemption configuration](/graph/api/crosstenantaccesspolicyconfigurationdefault-update?view=graph-rest-beta&tabs=http#example-2-update-default-invitation-redemption-configuration&preserve-view=true) in the Microsoft Graph reference documentation.
 
## How to update the certificate or configuration details

On the **All identity providers** page, you can view the list of SAML/WS-Fed identity providers configured and their certificate expiration dates. From this list, you can renew certificates and modify other configuration details.

<!--TODO:::image type="content" source="media/direct-federation/new-saml-wsfed-idp-list-multi.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing an identity provider in the SAML WS-Fed list.":::-->

1. Sign in to the [Microsoft Entra admin center](https://entra.microsoft.com) as at least an [External Identity Provider Administrator](~/identity/role-based-access-control/permissions-reference.md#external-identity-provider-administrator).
1. Browse to **Entra ID** > **External Identities** > **All identity providers**.
1. Select the **Custom** tab.
1. Scroll to an identity provider in the list or use the search box.
1. To update the certificate or modify configuration details:
   - In the **Configuration** column for the identity provider, select the **Edit** link.
   - On the configuration page, modify any of the following details:
     - **Display name** - Display name for the partner's organization.
     - **Identity provider protocol** - Select **SAML** or **WS-Fed**.
     - **Passive authentication endpoint** - The partner IdP's passive requestor endpoint.
     - **Certificate** - The ID of the signing certificate. To renew it, enter a new certificate ID.
     - **Metadata URL** - The URL containing the partner's metadata, used for automatic renewal of the signing certificate.
   - Select **Save**.

   :::image type="content" source="media/direct-federation/modify-configuration.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the IDP configuration details.":::

1. To edit the domains associated with the partner, select the link in the **Domains** column. In the domain details pane:

   - To add a domain, type the domain name next to **Domain name of federating IdP**, and then select **Add**. Repeat for each domain you want to add.
   - To delete a domain, select the delete icon next to the domain.
   - When you're finished, select **Done**.

   :::image type="content" source="media/direct-federation/edit-domains.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the domain configuration page.":::

   > [!NOTE]
   > To remove federation with a partner, first delete all domains except one, and then follow the steps in the [next section](#how-to-remove-federation).

## How to remove federation

You can remove your federation configuration. If you do, federation guest users who already redeemed their invitations can no longer sign in. But you can give them access to your resources again by [resetting their redemption status](reset-redemption-status.md).
To remove a configuration for an IdP in the Microsoft Entra admin center:

1. Sign in to the [Microsoft Entra admin center](https://entra.microsoft.com) as at least an [External Identity Provider Administrator](~/identity/role-based-access-control/permissions-reference.md#external-identity-provider-administrator).
1. Browse to **Entra ID** > **External Identities** > **All identity providers**.
1. Select the **Custom** tab, and then scroll to the identity provider in the list or use the search box.
1. Select the link in the **Domains** column to view the IdP's domain details.
1. Delete all but one of the domains in the **Domain name** list.
1. Select **Delete Configuration**, and then select **Done**.

   :::image type="content" source="media/direct-federation/delete-configuration.png" alt-text="Screenshot of deleting a configuration.":::

1. Select **OK** to confirm deletion.

You can also remove federation using the Microsoft Graph API [samlOrWsFedExternalDomainFederation](/graph/api/resources/samlorwsfedexternaldomainfederation?view=graph-rest-beta&preserve-view=true) resource type.

## Next steps

- **External tenants:** [Add the SAML/WS-Fed identity provider to a user flow](customers/how-to-saml-ws-federation-self-service-sign-up.md).
- **Workforce tenants:** Learn more about the [invitation redemption experience](redemption-experience.md) when external users sign in with various identity providers.

Commit message:

Update direct-federation.md - clarify external IdP must register https://<tenantID>.ciamlogin.com/login.srf as callback/ACS URL
Received support inquiries about sign-in failures caused by the external IdP not having this URL registered as its callback (ACS) URL. Added a comment to make the requirement explicit and reduce similar inquiries.

docs/external-id/direct-federation.md, after:

---
title: Add a SAML/WS-Fed identity provider
description: Set up direct federation with SAML 2.0 or WS-Fed identity providers so users can sign in with work accounts. Understand attributes and claims for federation.
ms.service: entra-external-id
ms.topic: how-to
ms.date: 05/07/2025
ms.author: cmulligan
author: csmulligan
manager: dougeby
ms.collection: M365-identity-device-management
ms.custom: it-pro, has-azure-ad-ps-ref, azure-ad-ref-level-one-done, seo-july-2024, sfi-image-nochange
#customer intent: As an IT admin setting up federation with SAML/WS-Fed identity providers, I want to configure the required attributes and claims for the SAML 2.0 or WS-Fed protocol, so that guest users can sign in to my Microsoft Entra tenant using their own organizational account.
---

# Add federation with SAML/WS-Fed identity providers

[!INCLUDE [applies-to-workforce-external](./includes/applies-to-workforce-external.md)]

Your Microsoft Entra tenant can be directly federated with external organizations that use a SAML or WS-Fed identity provider (IdP). Users from the external organization can then use their own IdP-managed accounts to sign in to your apps or resources, either during invitation redemption or self-service sign-up, without having to create new Microsoft Entra credentials. The user is redirected to their IdP when signing up or signing in to your app, and then returned to Microsoft Entra once they successfully sign in. 

## Prerequisites

- Review the configuration considerations in [SAML/WS-Fed identity providers](direct-federation-overview.md).
- A workforce tenant or an [external tenant](customers/how-to-create-external-tenant-portal.md).

## How to configure SAML/WS-Fed IdP federation

### Step 1: Determine if the partner needs to update their DNS text records

Use the following steps to determine if the partner needs to update their DNS records to enable federation with you. 

1. Check the partner's IdP passive authentication URL to see if the domain matches the target domain or a host within the target domain. In other words, when setting up federation for `fabrikam.com`:

   - If the passive authentication endpoint is `https://fabrikam.com` or `https://sts.fabrikam.com/adfs` (a host in the same domain), no DNS changes are needed.
   - If the passive authentication endpoint is `https://fabrikamconglomerate.com/adfs` or `https://fabrikam.co.uk/adfs`, the domain doesn't match the fabrikam.com domain, so the partner needs to add a text record for the authentication URL to their DNS configuration.

1. If DNS changes are needed based on the previous step, ask the partner to add a TXT record to their domain's DNS records, like the following example:

   `fabrikam.com.  IN   TXT   DirectFedAuthUrl=https://fabrikamconglomerate.com/adfs`

### Step 2: Configure the partner organization’s IdP

Next, your partner organization needs to configure their IdP with the required claims and relying party trusts. For federation to work properly, Microsoft Entra External ID requires the external IdP to send certain attributes and claims, which must be configured at the external IdP.

> [!NOTE]
> To illustrate how to configure a SAML/WS-Fed IdP for federation, we use Active Directory Federation Services (AD FS) as an example. See the article [Configure SAML/WS-Fed IdP federation with AD FS](direct-federation-adfs.md), which gives examples of how to configure AD FS as a SAML 2.0 or WS-Fed IdP in preparation for federation.

#### To configure a SAML 2.0 identity provider

Microsoft Entra External ID requires the SAML 2.0 response from the external IdP to include specific attributes and claims. The necessary attributes and claims can be configured at the external IdP by either:

- Linking to the online security token service XML file, or
- Manually entering the values

Refer to the following tables for the required values.

> [!NOTE]
> Ensure the value matches the cloud for which you're setting up external federation.

**Table 1. Required attributes for the SAML 2.0 response from the IdP.**

|Attribute                |Value for a workforce tenant                   |Value for an external tenant                |
|-------------------------|-----------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------|
|AssertionConsumerService |`https://login.microsoftonline.com/login.srf`  |`https://<tenantID>.ciamlogin.com/login.srf` Add `https://<tenantID>.ciamlogin.com/login.srf` as the callback/ACS URL on the external IdP if required by that provider.|
|Audience                 |`https://login.microsoftonline.com/<tenant ID>/` (Recommended) Replace `<tenant ID>` with the tenant ID of the Microsoft Entra tenant you're setting up federation with.<br></br> In the SAML request sent by Microsoft Entra ID for external federations, the Issuer URL is a tenanted endpoint (for example, `https://login.microsoftonline.com/<tenant ID>/`). For any new federations, we recommend that all our partners set the audience of the SAML or WS-Fed based IdP to a tenanted endpoint. Any existing federations configured with the global endpoint (for example, `urn:federation:MicrosoftOnline`) continue to work, but new federations stop working if your external IdP is expecting a global issuer URL in the SAML request sent by Microsoft Entra ID.      |`https://login.microsoftonline.com/<tenant ID>/`<br>Replace `<tenant ID>` with the tenant ID of the Microsoft Entra tenant you're setting up federation with.      |
|Issuer                   |The issuer URI of the partner's IdP, for example `http://www.example.com/exk10l6w90DHM0yi...`    |The issuer URI of the partner's IdP, for example `http://www.example.com/exk10l6w90DHM0yi...` |


**Table 2. Required claims for the SAML 2.0 token issued by the IdP.**

|Attribute Name                                                        |Value                                                  |
|----------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------|
|NameID Format                                                         |`urn:oasis:names:tc:SAML:2.0:nameid-format:persistent` |
|`http://schemas.xmlsoap.org/ws/2005/05/identity/claims/emailaddress`  | The user's email address                              |

#### To configure a WS-Fed identity provider

Microsoft Entra External ID requires the WS-Fed message from the external IdP to include specific attributes and claims. The necessary attributes and claims can be configured at the external IdP by either:

- Linking to the online security token service XML file, or
- Manually entering the values

> [!NOTE]
> Currently, the two WS-Fed providers that have been tested for compatibility with Microsoft Entra ID are AD FS and Shibboleth.

##### Required WS-Fed attributes and claims

The following tables show requirements for specific attributes and claims that must be configured at the third-party WS-Fed IdP. To set up federation, the following attributes must be received in the WS-Fed message from the IdP. These attributes can be configured by linking to the online security token service XML file or by entering them manually.

Refer to the following tables for the required values.

> [!NOTE]
> Ensure the value matches the cloud for which you're setting up external federation.

**Table 3. Required attributes in the WS-Fed message from the IdP.**
 
|Attribute               |Value for a workforce tenant                 |Value for an external tenant                |
|------------------------|---------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------|
|PassiveRequestorEndpoint|`https://login.microsoftonline.com/login.srf`|`https://<tenantID>.ciamlogin.com/login.srf`|
|Audience                |`https://login.microsoftonline.com/<tenant ID>/` (Recommended) Replace `<tenant ID>` with the tenant ID of the Microsoft Entra tenant you're setting up federation with.<br></br> In the SAML request sent by Microsoft Entra ID for external federations, the Issuer URL is a tenanted endpoint (for example, `https://login.microsoftonline.com/<tenant ID>/`). For any new federations, we recommend that all our partners set the audience of the SAML or WS-Fed based IdP to a tenanted endpoint. Any existing federations configured with the global endpoint (for example, `urn:federation:MicrosoftOnline`) continue to work, but new federations stop working if your external IdP is expecting a global issuer URL in the SAML request sent by Microsoft Entra ID.          |`https://login.microsoftonline.com/<tenant ID>/` <br>Replace `<tenant ID>` with the tenant ID of the Microsoft Entra tenant you're setting up federation with. |
|Issuer                   |The issuer URI of the partner's IdP, for example `http://www.example.com/exk10l6w90DHM0yi...`   |The issuer URI of the partner's IdP, for example `http://www.example.com/exk10l6w90DHM0yi...` |

**Table 4. Required claims for the WS-Fed token issued by the IdP.**

|Attribute  |Value  |
|---------|---------|
|ImmutableID     |`http://schemas.microsoft.com/LiveID/Federation/2008/05/ImmutableID`         |
|emailaddress     |`http://schemas.xmlsoap.org/ws/2005/05/identity/claims/emailaddress`         |

<a name='step-3-configure-samlws-fed-idp-federation-in-azure-ad'></a>

### Step 3: Configure SAML/WS-Fed IdP federation in Microsoft Entra External ID

Next, configure federation with the IdP configured in step 1 in Microsoft Entra External ID. You can use either the Microsoft Entra admin center or the [Microsoft Graph API](/graph/api/resources/samlorwsfedexternaldomainfederation). It might take 5-10 minutes before the federation policy takes effect. During this time, don't attempt to complete self-service sign-up or redeem an invitation for the federation domain. The following attributes are required:

- Issuer URI of the partner's IdP
- Passive authentication endpoint of partner IdP (only https is supported)
- Certificate

#### To add the IdP to your tenant in the Microsoft Entra admin center


1. Sign in to the [Microsoft Entra admin center](https://entra.microsoft.com) as at least an [External Identity Provider Administrator](~/identity/role-based-access-control/permissions-reference.md#external-identity-provider-administrator).
1. If you have access to multiple tenants, use the **Settings** icon :::image type="icon" source="media/common/admin-center-settings-icon.png" border="false"::: in the top menu and switch to your tenant from the **Directories** menu.
1. Browse to **Entra ID** > **External Identities** > **All identity providers**.
1. Select the **Custom** tab, and then select **Add new** > **SAML/WS-Fed**.

   :::image type="content" source="media/direct-federation/new-saml-wsfed-idp.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing button for adding a new SAML or WS-Fed IdP." lightbox="media/direct-federation/new-saml-wsfed-idp.png":::

1. On the **New SAML/WS-Fed IdP** page, enter the following:
   - **Display name** - Enter a name to help you identify the partner's IdP.
   - **Identity provider protocol** - Select **SAML** or **WS-Fed**.
   - **Domain name of federating IdP** - Enter your partner’s IdP target domain name for federation. During this initial configuration, enter just one domain name. You can add more domains later.

    :::image type="content" source="media/direct-federation/new-saml-wsfed-idp-parse.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing the new SAML or WS-Fed IdP page.":::

1. Select a method for populating metadata. If you have a file that contains the metadata, you can automatically populate the fields by selecting **Parse metadata file** and browsing for the file. Or, you can select **Input metadata manually** and enter the following information:

   - The **Issuer URI** of the partner's SAML IdP, or the **Entity ID** of the partner's WS-Fed IdP.
   - The **Passive authentication endpoint** of the partner's SAML IdP, or the **Passive requestor endpoint** of the partner's WS-Fed IdP.
   - **Certificate** - The signing certificate ID.
   - **Metadata URL** - The location of the IdP's metadata for automatic renewal of the signing certificate.

   :::image type="content" source="media/direct-federation/new-saml-wsfed-idp-input.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing metadata fields.":::

   > [!NOTE]
   > Metadata URL is optional. However, we strongly recommend it. If you provide the metadata URL, Microsoft Entra ID can automatically renew the signing certificate when it expires. If the certificate is rotated for any reason before the expiration time or if you don't provide a metadata URL, Microsoft Entra ID is unable to renew it. In this case, you need to update the signing certificate manually.

1. Select **Save**. The identity provider is added to the **SAML/WS-Fed identity providers** list.

      :::image type="content" source="media/direct-federation/new-saml-wsfed-idp-list.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing the SAML/WS-Fed identity provider list with the new entry." lightbox="media/direct-federation/new-saml-wsfed-idp-list.png":::

1. (Optional) To add more domain names to this federating identity provider:
   
   1. Select the link in the **Domains** column.

      :::image type="content" source="media/direct-federation/new-saml-wsfed-idp-add-domain.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing the link for adding domains to the SAML/WS-Fed identity provider." lightbox="media/direct-federation/new-saml-wsfed-idp-add-domain.png":::

   1. Next to **Domain name of federating IdP**, type the domain name, and then select **Add**. Repeat for each domain you want to add. When you're finished, select **Done**.

      :::image type="content" source="media/direct-federation/add-domain.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing the Add button in the domain details pane.":::
   
#### To configure federation using the Microsoft Graph API

You can use the Microsoft Graph API [samlOrWsFedExternalDomainFederation](/graph/api/resources/samlorwsfedexternaldomainfederation?view=graph-rest-beta&preserve-view=true) resource type to set up federation with an identity provider that supports either the SAML or WS-Fed protocol.

<a name='step-4-test-samlws-fed-idp-federation-in-azure-ad'></a>

### Step 4: Configure redemption order (B2B collaboration in workforce tenants)

If you're configuring federation in your workforce tenant for B2B collaboration with a verified domain, make sure the federated IdP is used first during invitation redemption. [Configure the **Redemption order** settings](cross-tenant-access-settings-b2b-collaboration.yml) in your cross-tenant access settings for inbound B2B collaboration. Move **SAML/WS-Fed identity providers** to the top of the **Primary identity providers** list to prioritize redemption with the federated IdP.

You can test your federation setup by inviting a new B2B guest user. For details, see [Add Microsoft Entra B2B collaboration users in the Microsoft Entra admin center](add-users-administrator.yml).

> [!NOTE]
> You can configure the invitation redemption order using the Microsoft Graph REST API (beta version). See [Example 2: Update default invitation redemption configuration](/graph/api/crosstenantaccesspolicyconfigurationdefault-update?view=graph-rest-beta&tabs=http#example-2-update-default-invitation-redemption-configuration&preserve-view=true) in the Microsoft Graph reference documentation.
 
## How to update the certificate or configuration details

On the **All identity providers** page, you can view the list of SAML/WS-Fed identity providers configured and their certificate expiration dates. From this list, you can renew certificates and modify other configuration details.

<!--TODO:::image type="content" source="media/direct-federation/new-saml-wsfed-idp-list-multi.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing an identity provider in the SAML WS-Fed list.":::-->

1. Sign in to the [Microsoft Entra admin center](https://entra.microsoft.com) as at least an [External Identity Provider Administrator](~/identity/role-based-access-control/permissions-reference.md#external-identity-provider-administrator).
1. Browse to **Entra ID** > **External Identities** > **All identity providers**.
1. Select the **Custom** tab.
1. Scroll to an identity provider in the list or use the search box.
1. To update the certificate or modify configuration details:
   - In the **Configuration** column for the identity provider, select the **Edit** link.
   - On the configuration page, modify any of the following details:
     - **Display name** - Display name for the partner's organization.
     - **Identity provider protocol** - Select **SAML** or **WS-Fed**.
     - **Passive authentication endpoint** - The partner IdP's passive requestor endpoint.
     - **Certificate** - The ID of the signing certificate. To renew it, enter a new certificate ID.
     - **Metadata URL** - The URL containing the partner's metadata, used for automatic renewal of the signing certificate.
   - Select **Save**.

   :::image type="content" source="media/direct-federation/modify-configuration.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the IDP configuration details.":::

1. To edit the domains associated with the partner, select the link in the **Domains** column. In the domain details pane:

   - To add a domain, type the domain name next to **Domain name of federating IdP**, and then select **Add**. Repeat for each domain you want to add.
   - To delete a domain, select the delete icon next to the domain.
   - When you're finished, select **Done**.

   :::image type="content" source="media/direct-federation/edit-domains.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the domain configuration page.":::

   > [!NOTE]
   > To remove federation with a partner, first delete all domains except one, and then follow the steps in the [next section](#how-to-remove-federation).

## How to remove federation

You can remove your federation configuration. If you do, federation guest users who already redeemed their invitations can no longer sign in. But you can give them access to your resources again by [resetting their redemption status](reset-redemption-status.md).
To remove a configuration for an IdP in the Microsoft Entra admin center:

1. Sign in to the [Microsoft Entra admin center](https://entra.microsoft.com) as at least an [External Identity Provider Administrator](~/identity/role-based-access-control/permissions-reference.md#external-identity-provider-administrator).
1. Browse to **Entra ID** > **External Identities** > **All identity providers**.
1. Select the **Custom** tab, and then scroll to the identity provider in the list or use the search box.
1. Select the link in the **Domains** column to view the IdP's domain details.
1. Delete all but one of the domains in the **Domain name** list.
1. Select **Delete Configuration**, and then select **Done**.

   :::image type="content" source="media/direct-federation/delete-configuration.png" alt-text="Screenshot of deleting a configuration.":::

1. Select **OK** to confirm deletion.

You can also remove federation using the Microsoft Graph API [samlOrWsFedExternalDomainFederation](/graph/api/resources/samlorwsfedexternaldomainfederation?view=graph-rest-beta&preserve-view=true) resource type.

## Next steps

- **External tenants:** [Add the SAML/WS-Fed identity provider to a user flow](customers/how-to-saml-ws-federation-self-service-sign-up.md).
- **Workforce tenants:** Learn more about the [invitation redemption experience](redemption-experience.md) when external users sign in with various identity providers.
