docs/identity-platform/msal-net-adfs-support.md, before:

---
title: AD FS support in Microsoft Authentication Library for .NET | Azure
description: Learn about Active Directory Federation Services (AD FS) support in Microsoft Authentication Library for .NET (MSAL.NET).
services: active-directory
documentationcenter: dev-center-name
author: rwike77
manager: CelesteDG
editor: ''

ms.service: active-directory
ms.subservice: develop
ms.devlang: na
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.tgt_pltfrm: na
ms.workload: identity
ms.date: 06/03/2019
ms.author: jmprieur
ms.reviewer: saeeda
ms.custom: aaddev
#Customer intent: As an application developer, I want to learn about AD FS support in MSAL.NET so I can decide if this platform meets my application development needs and requirements.
ms.collection: M365-identity-device-management
---

# Active Directory Federation Services support in MSAL.NET
Active Directory Federation Services (AD FS) in Windows Server enables you to add OpenID Connect and OAuth 2.0 based authentication and authorization to applications you are developing, and have those applications authenticate users directly against AD FS. For more information, read [AD FS Scenarios for Developers](/windows-server/identity/ad-fs/overview/ad-fs-scenarios-for-developers).

Microsoft Authentication Library for .NET (MSAL.NET) supports two scenarios for authenticating against AD FS:

- MSAL.NET talks to Azure Active Directory, which itself is *federated* with AD FS.
- MSAL.NET talks *directly* to an AD FS authority, where the version of AD FS is OpenID Connect compliant (starting in AD FS 2019). Connecting directly to AD FS allows MSAL.NET to authenticate with apps running in [Azure Stack](https://azure.microsoft.com/overview/azure-stack/).

## MSAL connects to Azure AD, which is federated with AD FS
MSAL.NET supports connecting to Azure AD, which signs in managed-users (users managed in Azure AD) or federated users (users managed by another identity provider such as AD FS). MSAL.NET does not know about the fact that users are federated. As far as it’s concerned, it talks to Azure AD.

The [authority](msal-client-application-configuration.md#authority) you use in this case is the usual authority (authority host name + tenant, common, or organizations).

### Acquiring a token interactively
When you call the `AcquireTokenInteractive` method, the user experience is typically:

1. The user enters their account ID.
2. Azure AD displays briefly the message "Taking you to your organization's page".
3. The user is redirected to the sign-in page of the identity provider. The sign-in page is usually customized with the logo of the organization.

Supported AD FS versions in this federated scenario are AD FS v2, AD FS v3 (Windows Server 2012 R2), and AD FS v4 (AD FS 2016).

### Acquiring a token using AcquireTokenByIntegratedAuthentication or AcquireTokenByUsernamePassword
When acquiring a token using the `AcquireTokenByIntegratedAuthentication` or `AcquireTokenByUsernamePassword` methods, MSAL.NET gets the identity provider to contact based on the username.  MSAL.NET receives a [SAML 1.1 token](reference-saml-tokens.md) after contacting the identity provider.  MSAL.NET then provides the SAML token to Azure AD as a user assertion (similar to the [on-behalf-of flow](msal-authentication-flows.md#on-behalf-of)) to get back a JWT.

## MSAL connects directly to AD FS
MSAL.NET supports connecting to AD FS 2019, which is Open ID Connect compliant. When connecting directly to AD FS, the authority you'll want to use to build your application is similar to `https://mysite.contoso.com/adfs/`.

Currently, there are no plans to support a direct connection to AD FS 2016 or AD FS v2 (which are not OpenID Connect compliant). If you need to support scenarios requiring a direct connection to AD FS 2016, please use the latest version of [Azure Active Directory Authentication Library](active-directory-authentication-libraries.md#microsoft-supported-client-libraries). When you have upgraded your on-premise system to AD FS 2019, you'll be able to use MSAL.NET.

Commit message:

Synching the MSAL.NET wiki with docs.ms

docs/identity-platform/msal-net-adfs-support.md, after:

---
title: AD FS support in Microsoft Authentication Library for .NET | Azure
description: Learn about Active Directory Federation Services (AD FS) support in Microsoft Authentication Library for .NET (MSAL.NET).
services: active-directory
documentationcenter: dev-center-name
author: rwike77
manager: CelesteDG
editor: ''

ms.service: active-directory
ms.subservice: develop
ms.devlang: na
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.tgt_pltfrm: na
ms.workload: identity
ms.date: 16/07/2019
ms.author: jmprieur
ms.reviewer: saeeda
ms.custom: aaddev
#Customer intent: As an application developer, I want to learn about AD FS support in MSAL.NET so I can decide if this platform meets my application development needs and requirements.
ms.collection: M365-identity-device-management
---

# Active Directory Federation Services support in MSAL.NET
Active Directory Federation Services (AD FS) in Windows Server enables you to add OpenID Connect and OAuth 2.0 based authentication and authorization to applications you are developing. Those applications can, then, authenticate users directly against AD FS. For more information, read [AD FS Scenarios for Developers](/windows-server/identity/ad-fs/overview/ad-fs-scenarios-for-developers).

Microsoft Authentication Library for .NET (MSAL.NET) supports two scenarios for authenticating against AD FS:

- MSAL.NET talks to Azure Active Directory, which itself is *federated* with AD FS.
- MSAL.NET talks **directly** to an ADFS authority. This is only supported from AD FS 2019 and above. One of the scenarios this highlight is [Azure Stack](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/overview/azure-stack/) support


## MSAL connects to Azure AD, which is federated with AD FS
MSAL.NET supports connecting to Azure AD, which signs in managed-users (users managed in Azure AD) or federated users (users managed by another identity provider such as AD FS). MSAL.NET does not know about the fact that users are federated. As far as it’s concerned, it talks to Azure AD.

The [authority](msal-client-application-configuration.md#authority) you use in this case is the usual authority (authority host name + tenant, common, or organizations).

### Acquiring a token interactively
When you call the `AcquireTokenInteractive` method, the user experience is typically:

1. The user enters their account ID.
2. Azure AD displays briefly the message "Taking you to your organization's page".
3. The user is redirected to the sign-in page of the identity provider. The sign-in page is usually customized with the logo of the organization.

Supported AD FS versions in this federated scenario are AD FS v2, AD FS v3 (Windows Server 2012 R2), and AD FS v4 (AD FS 2016).

### Acquiring a token using AcquireTokenByIntegratedAuthentication or AcquireTokenByUsernamePassword
When acquiring a token using the `AcquireTokenByIntegratedAuthentication` or `AcquireTokenByUsernamePassword` methods, MSAL.NET gets the identity provider to contact based on the username.  MSAL.NET receives a [SAML 1.1 token](reference-saml-tokens.md) after contacting the identity provider.  MSAL.NET then provides the SAML token to Azure AD as a user assertion (similar to the [on-behalf-of flow](msal-authentication-flows.md#on-behalf-of)) to get back a JWT.

## MSAL connects directly to AD FS
MSAL.NET supports connecting to AD FS 2019, which is Open ID Connect compliant and understand PKCE and scopes. This support requires that a service pack [KB 4490481](https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/help/4490481/windows-10-update-kb4490481) is applied to Windows Server. When connecting directly to AD FS, the authority you'll want to use to build your application is similar to `https://mysite.contoso.com/adfs/`.

Currently, there are no plans to support a direct connection to:

- ADFS 16, as it does not support PKCE and still uses resources, not scope
- ADFS v2, which is not OIDC-compliant.

 If you need to support scenarios requiring a direct connection to AD FS 2016, use the latest version of [Azure Active Directory Authentication Library](active-directory-authentication-libraries.md#microsoft-supported-client-libraries). When you have upgraded your on-premise system to AD FS 2019, you'll be able to use MSAL.NET.

## See also

For the federated case, see [Configure Azure Active Directory sign in behavior for an application by using a Home Realm Discovery policy](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/manage-apps/configure-authentication-for-federated-users-portal)
