docs/identity-platform/quickstart-v2-ios.md, before:

---
title: Microsoft identity platform iOS quickstart | Azure
description: Learn how to sign-in users and query Microsoft Graph in an iOS application.
services: active-directory
documentationcenter: dev-center-name
author: danieldobalian
manager: CelesteDG

ms.assetid: 820acdb7-d316-4c3b-8de9-79df48ba3b06
ms.service: active-directory
ms.subservice: develop
ms.devlang: na
ms.topic: quickstart
ms.tgt_pltfrm: na
ms.workload: identity
ms.date: 04/18/2019
ms.author: brandwe
ms.reviewer: jmprieur, saeeda
ms.custom: aaddev 
#Customer intent: As an application developer, I want to learn how to sign in users and call Microsoft Graph from my iOS application.
ms.collection: M365-identity-device-management
---

# Quickstart: Sign in users and call the Microsoft Graph API from an iOS app

[!INCLUDE [active-directory-develop-applies-v2-msal](../../../includes/active-directory-develop-applies-v2-msal.md)]

This quickstart contains a code sample that demonstrates how a native iOS application can sign in personal, work and school accounts, get an access token, and call the Microsoft Graph API.

![Shows how the sample app generated by this quickstart works](media/quickstart-v2-ios/ios-intro.svg)

> [!NOTE]
> **Prerequisites**
> * XCode 10+
> * iOS 10+ 

> [!div renderon="docs"]
> ## Register and download your quickstart app
> You have two options to start your quickstart application:
> * [Express] [Option 1: Register and auto configure your app and then download your code sample](#option-1-register-and-auto-configure-your-app-and-then-download-your-code-sample)
> * [Manual] [Option 2: Register and manually configure your application and code sample](#option-2-register-and-manually-configure-your-application-and-code-sample)
>
> ### Option 1: Register and auto configure your app and then download your code sample
> #### Step 1: Register your application
> To register your app,
> 1. Go to the new [Azure portal - App registrations](https://portal.azure.com/#blade/Microsoft_AAD_RegisteredApps/applicationsListBlade/quickStartType/IosQuickstartPage/sourceType/docs) pane.
> 1. Enter a name for your application and select **Register**.
> 1. Follow the instructions to download and automatically configure your new application with just one click.
>
> ### Option 2: Register and manually configure your application and code sample
>
> #### Step 1: Register your application
> To register your application and add the app's registration information to your solution manually, follow these steps:
>
> 1. Navigate to the Microsoft identity platform for developers [App registrations](https://aka.ms/MobileAppReg) page.
> 1. Select **New registration**.
> 1. When the **Register an application** page appears, enter your application's registration information:
>      - In the **Name** section, enter a meaningful application name that will be displayed to users of the app when they sign in or consent to your app, for example `iOSQuickstart`.
>      - Skip other configurations on this page. 
>      - Hit the `Register` button.
> 1. Click on the new app > go to `Authentication` > `Add Platform` > `iOS`.    
>      - Enter the ***Bundle Identifier*** for your application. 
> 1. Select `Configure` and save the ***MSAL Configuration*** details for later. 

> [!div renderon="portal" class="sxs-lookup"]
>
> #### Step 1: Configure your application
> For the code sample for this quickstart to work, you need to add a redirect URI compatible with the Auth broker. 
> > [!div renderon="portal" id="makechanges" class="nextstepaction"]
> > [Make this change for me]()
>
> > [!div id="appconfigured" class="alert alert-info"]
> > ![Already configured](media/quickstart-v2-ios/green-check.png) Your application is configured with these attributes

#### Step 2: Download your web server or project

- [Download the Code Sample](https://github.com/Azure-Samples/active-directory-ios-swift-native-v2/archive/master.zip)

#### Step 3: Configure your project

> [!div renderon="docs"]
> If you selected Option 1 above, you can skip these steps. 

> [!div renderon="portal" class="sxs-lookup"]
> 1. Extract the zip file and open the project in XCode.
> 1. Edit **ViewController.swift** and replace the line starting with 'let kClientID' with the following code snippet:
>    ```swift
>    let kClientID = "Enter_the_Application_Id_here"
>    let kAuthority = "https://login.microsoftonline.com/Enter_the_Tenant_Info_Here"
>
>    ```
> 1. Right click **Info.plist** and select **Open As** > **Source Code**.
> 1. Under the dict root node, replace with your ***Bundle Id***:
>
>    ```xml
>    <key>CFBundleURLTypes</key>
>    <array>
>       <dict>
>          <key>CFBundleURLSchemes</key>
>          <array>
>             <string>msauth.Enter_the_Bundle_Id_Here</string>
>          </array>
>       </dict>
>    </array>
> 
>    ```
> 1. Build & run the app! 

> [!div renderon="docs"]
>
> 1. Extract the zip file and open the project in XCode.
> 1. Edit **ViewController.swift** and replace the line starting with 'let kClientID' with the following  code snippet:
>
>    ```swift
>    let kClientID = "<ENTER_YOUR_APPLICATION/CLIENT_ID>"
> 
>    ```
> 1. Right click **Info.plist** and select **Open As** > **Source Code**.
> 1. Under the dict root node, replace with your ***Bundle Id***:
>
>    ```xml
>    <key>CFBundleURLTypes</key>
>    <array>
>       <dict>
>          <key>CFBundleURLSchemes</key>
>          <array>
>             <string>msauth.<ENTER_YOUR_BUNDLE_ID></string>
>          </array>
>       </dict>
>    </array>
>
>    ```
> 1. Build & run the app! 

## More Information

Read these sections to learn more about this quickstart.

### Getting MSAL

MSAL ([MSAL.framework](https://github.com/AzureAD/microsoft-authentication-library-for-objc)) is the library used to sign in users and request tokens used to access an API protected by Microsoft identity platform. You can add MSAL to your application using the following process:

```
$ vi Podfile

```
Add the following to this podfile (with your project's target):

```
use_frameworks!

target 'MSALiOS' do
   pod 'MSAL', '~> 0.4.0'
end

```

### MSAL initialization

You can add the reference for MSAL by adding the following code:

```swift
import MSAL
```

Then, initialize MSAL using the following code:

```swift
let authority = try MSALAADAuthority(url: URL(string: kAuthority)!)
            
let msalConfiguration = MSALPublicClientApplicationConfig(clientId: kClientID, redirectUri: nil, authority: authority)
self.applicationContext = try MSALPublicClientApplication(configuration: msalConfiguration)

```

> |Where: ||
> |---------|---------|
> | `clientId` | The Application ID from the application registered in *portal.azure.com* |
> | `authority` | The Microsoft identity platform endpoint. In most of cases this will be *https<span/>://login.microsoftonline.com/common* |
> | `redirectUri` | The redirect URI of the application. You can pass 'nil' to use the default value, or your custom redirect URI. |

### Additional App Requirements  

Your app must also have the following in your `AppDelegate`. This lets MSAL SDK handle token response from the Auth broker app when you perform authentication.

 ```swift
 func application(_ app: UIApplication, open url: URL, options: [UIApplication.OpenURLOptionsKey : Any] = [:]) -> Bool {
         guard let sourceApplication = options[UIApplication.OpenURLOptionsKey.sourceApplication] as? String else {
             return false
         }
         
         return MSALPublicClientApplication.handleMSALResponse(url, sourceApplication: sourceApplication)
     }

```

Finally, your app must has an `LSApplicationQueriesSchemes` entry in your ***Info.plist*** alongside the `CFBundleURLTypes`. The sample comes with this included. 

   ```xml 
   <key>LSApplicationQueriesSchemes</key>
   <array>
      <string>msauth</string>
      <string>msauthv2</string>
   </array>
   ```

### Sign in users & Request tokens

MSAL has two methods used to acquire tokens: `acquireToken` and `acquireTokenSilent`.

#### acquireToken: Getting a token interactively

Some situations require users to interact with Microsoft identity platform. In these cases, the end user may be required to select their account, enter their credentials, or consent to your app's permissions. For example, 

* The first time users sign in to the application
* If a user resets their password, they will need to enter their credentials 
* When your application is requesting access to a resource for the first time
* When MFA or other Conditional Access policies are required

```swift
let parameters = MSALInteractiveTokenParameters(scopes: kScopes)
applicationContext.acquireToken(with: parameters) { (result, error) in /* Add your handling logic */}
```

> |Where:||
> |---------|---------|
> | `scopes` | Contains the scopes being requested (that is, `[ "user.read" ]` for Microsoft Graph or `[ "<Application ID URL>/scope" ]` for custom Web APIs  (`api://<Application ID>/access_as_user`) |

#### acquireTokenSilent: Getting an access token silently

Apps shouldn't require their users to sign in every time they request a token. If the user has already signed in, this method allows apps to request tokens silently. 

```swift
let parameters = MSALSilentTokenParameters(scopes: kScopes, account: applicationContext.allAccounts().first)
applicationContext.acquireTokenSilent(with: parameters) { (result, error) in /* Add your handling logic */}
```

> |Where: ||
> |---------|---------|
> | `scopes` | Contains the scopes being requested (that is, `[ "user.read" ]` for Microsoft Graph or `[ "<Application ID URL>/scope" ]` for custom Web APIs (`api://<Application ID>/access_as_user`) |
> | `account` | The account a token is being requested for. This quickstart is a single account application, if you want to build a multi-account app you'll need to define logic to identify which account to use for token requests `applicationContext.account(forHomeAccountId: self.homeAccountId)` |

## Next steps

Try out the iOS tutorial for a complete step-by-step guide on building applications, including a complete explanation of this quickstart.

### Learn the steps to create the application used in this quickstart

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> [Call Graph API iOS tutorial](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/active-directory/develop/guidedsetups/active-directory-ios)

[!INCLUDE [Help and support](../../../includes/active-directory-develop-help-support-include.md)]

Commit message:

Update qs to show sign-in audience in a note in the portal
Update qs to move sign-in info audience from banner to a note within qs content

docs/identity-platform/quickstart-v2-ios.md, after:

---
title: Microsoft identity platform iOS quickstart | Azure
description: Learn how to sign-in users and query Microsoft Graph in an iOS application.
services: active-directory
documentationcenter: dev-center-name
author: danieldobalian
manager: CelesteDG

ms.assetid: 820acdb7-d316-4c3b-8de9-79df48ba3b06
ms.service: active-directory
ms.subservice: develop
ms.devlang: na
ms.topic: quickstart
ms.tgt_pltfrm: na
ms.workload: identity
ms.date: 04/18/2019
ms.author: brandwe
ms.reviewer: jmprieur, saeeda
ms.custom: aaddev 
#Customer intent: As an application developer, I want to learn how to sign in users and call Microsoft Graph from my iOS application.
ms.collection: M365-identity-device-management
---

# Quickstart: Sign in users and call the Microsoft Graph API from an iOS app

[!INCLUDE [active-directory-develop-applies-v2-msal](../../../includes/active-directory-develop-applies-v2-msal.md)]

This quickstart contains a code sample that demonstrates how a native iOS application can sign in personal, work and school accounts, get an access token, and call the Microsoft Graph API.

![Shows how the sample app generated by this quickstart works](media/quickstart-v2-ios/ios-intro.svg)

> [!NOTE]
> **Prerequisites**
> * XCode 10+
> * iOS 10+ 

> [!div renderon="docs"]
> ## Register and download your quickstart app
> You have two options to start your quickstart application:
> * [Express] [Option 1: Register and auto configure your app and then download your code sample](#option-1-register-and-auto-configure-your-app-and-then-download-your-code-sample)
> * [Manual] [Option 2: Register and manually configure your application and code sample](#option-2-register-and-manually-configure-your-application-and-code-sample)
>
> ### Option 1: Register and auto configure your app and then download your code sample
> #### Step 1: Register your application
> To register your app,
> 1. Go to the new [Azure portal - App registrations](https://portal.azure.com/#blade/Microsoft_AAD_RegisteredApps/applicationsListBlade/quickStartType/IosQuickstartPage/sourceType/docs) pane.
> 1. Enter a name for your application and select **Register**.
> 1. Follow the instructions to download and automatically configure your new application with just one click.
>
> ### Option 2: Register and manually configure your application and code sample
>
> #### Step 1: Register your application
> To register your application and add the app's registration information to your solution manually, follow these steps:
>
> 1. Navigate to the Microsoft identity platform for developers [App registrations](https://aka.ms/MobileAppReg) page.
> 1. Select **New registration**.
> 1. When the **Register an application** page appears, enter your application's registration information:
>      - In the **Name** section, enter a meaningful application name that will be displayed to users of the app when they sign in or consent to your app, for example `iOSQuickstart`.
>      - Skip other configurations on this page. 
>      - Hit the `Register` button.
> 1. Click on the new app > go to `Authentication` > `Add Platform` > `iOS`.    
>      - Enter the ***Bundle Identifier*** for your application. 
> 1. Select `Configure` and save the ***MSAL Configuration*** details for later. 

> [!div renderon="portal" class="sxs-lookup"]
>
> #### Step 1: Configure your application
> For the code sample for this quickstart to work, you need to add a redirect URI compatible with the Auth broker. 
> > [!div renderon="portal" id="makechanges" class="nextstepaction"]
> > [Make this change for me]()
>
> > [!div id="appconfigured" class="alert alert-info"]
> > ![Already configured](media/quickstart-v2-ios/green-check.png) Your application is configured with these attributes

#### Step 2: Download your web server or project

- [Download the Code Sample](https://github.com/Azure-Samples/active-directory-ios-swift-native-v2/archive/master.zip)

#### Step 3: Configure your project

> [!div renderon="docs"]
> If you selected Option 1 above, you can skip these steps. 

> [!div renderon="portal" class="sxs-lookup"]
> 1. Extract the zip file and open the project in XCode.
> 1. Edit **ViewController.swift** and replace the line starting with 'let kClientID' with the following code snippet:
>    ```swift
>    let kClientID = "Enter_the_Application_Id_here"
>    let kAuthority = "https://login.microsoftonline.com/Enter_the_Tenant_Info_Here"
>    ```
>    [!NOTE]
>    This quickstart supports Enter_the_Supported_Account_Info_Here.
> 
> 1. Right click **Info.plist** and select **Open As** > **Source Code**.
> 1. Under the dict root node, replace with your ***Bundle Id***:
>
>    ```xml
>    <key>CFBundleURLTypes</key>
>    <array>
>       <dict>
>          <key>CFBundleURLSchemes</key>
>          <array>
>             <string>msauth.Enter_the_Bundle_Id_Here</string>
>          </array>
>       </dict>
>    </array>
> 
>    ```
> 1. Build & run the app! 

> [!div renderon="docs"]
>
> 1. Extract the zip file and open the project in XCode.
> 1. Edit **ViewController.swift** and replace the line starting with 'let kClientID' with the following  code snippet:
>
>    ```swift
>    let kClientID = "<ENTER_YOUR_APPLICATION/CLIENT_ID>"
> 
>    ```
> 1. Right click **Info.plist** and select **Open As** > **Source Code**.
> 1. Under the dict root node, replace with your ***Bundle Id***:
>
>    ```xml
>    <key>CFBundleURLTypes</key>
>    <array>
>       <dict>
>          <key>CFBundleURLSchemes</key>
>          <array>
>             <string>msauth.<ENTER_YOUR_BUNDLE_ID></string>
>          </array>
>       </dict>
>    </array>
>
>    ```
> 1. Build & run the app! 

## More Information

Read these sections to learn more about this quickstart.

### Getting MSAL

MSAL ([MSAL.framework](https://github.com/AzureAD/microsoft-authentication-library-for-objc)) is the library used to sign in users and request tokens used to access an API protected by Microsoft identity platform. You can add MSAL to your application using the following process:

```
$ vi Podfile

```
Add the following to this podfile (with your project's target):

```
use_frameworks!

target 'MSALiOS' do
   pod 'MSAL', '~> 0.4.0'
end

```

### MSAL initialization

You can add the reference for MSAL by adding the following code:

```swift
import MSAL
```

Then, initialize MSAL using the following code:

```swift
let authority = try MSALAADAuthority(url: URL(string: kAuthority)!)
            
let msalConfiguration = MSALPublicClientApplicationConfig(clientId: kClientID, redirectUri: nil, authority: authority)
self.applicationContext = try MSALPublicClientApplication(configuration: msalConfiguration)

```

> |Where: ||
> |---------|---------|
> | `clientId` | The Application ID from the application registered in *portal.azure.com* |
> | `authority` | The Microsoft identity platform endpoint. In most of cases this will be *https<span/>://login.microsoftonline.com/common* |
> | `redirectUri` | The redirect URI of the application. You can pass 'nil' to use the default value, or your custom redirect URI. |

### Additional App Requirements  

Your app must also have the following in your `AppDelegate`. This lets MSAL SDK handle token response from the Auth broker app when you perform authentication.

 ```swift
 func application(_ app: UIApplication, open url: URL, options: [UIApplication.OpenURLOptionsKey : Any] = [:]) -> Bool {
         guard let sourceApplication = options[UIApplication.OpenURLOptionsKey.sourceApplication] as? String else {
             return false
         }
         
         return MSALPublicClientApplication.handleMSALResponse(url, sourceApplication: sourceApplication)
     }

```

Finally, your app must has an `LSApplicationQueriesSchemes` entry in your ***Info.plist*** alongside the `CFBundleURLTypes`. The sample comes with this included. 

   ```xml 
   <key>LSApplicationQueriesSchemes</key>
   <array>
      <string>msauth</string>
      <string>msauthv2</string>
   </array>
   ```

### Sign in users & Request tokens

MSAL has two methods used to acquire tokens: `acquireToken` and `acquireTokenSilent`.

#### acquireToken: Getting a token interactively

Some situations require users to interact with Microsoft identity platform. In these cases, the end user may be required to select their account, enter their credentials, or consent to your app's permissions. For example, 

* The first time users sign in to the application
* If a user resets their password, they will need to enter their credentials 
* When your application is requesting access to a resource for the first time
* When MFA or other Conditional Access policies are required

```swift
let parameters = MSALInteractiveTokenParameters(scopes: kScopes)
applicationContext.acquireToken(with: parameters) { (result, error) in /* Add your handling logic */}
```

> |Where:||
> |---------|---------|
> | `scopes` | Contains the scopes being requested (that is, `[ "user.read" ]` for Microsoft Graph or `[ "<Application ID URL>/scope" ]` for custom Web APIs  (`api://<Application ID>/access_as_user`) |

#### acquireTokenSilent: Getting an access token silently

Apps shouldn't require their users to sign in every time they request a token. If the user has already signed in, this method allows apps to request tokens silently. 

```swift
let parameters = MSALSilentTokenParameters(scopes: kScopes, account: applicationContext.allAccounts().first)
applicationContext.acquireTokenSilent(with: parameters) { (result, error) in /* Add your handling logic */}
```

> |Where: ||
> |---------|---------|
> | `scopes` | Contains the scopes being requested (that is, `[ "user.read" ]` for Microsoft Graph or `[ "<Application ID URL>/scope" ]` for custom Web APIs (`api://<Application ID>/access_as_user`) |
> | `account` | The account a token is being requested for. This quickstart is a single account application, if you want to build a multi-account app you'll need to define logic to identify which account to use for token requests `applicationContext.account(forHomeAccountId: self.homeAccountId)` |

## Next steps

Try out the iOS tutorial for a complete step-by-step guide on building applications, including a complete explanation of this quickstart.

### Learn the steps to create the application used in this quickstart

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> [Call Graph API iOS tutorial](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/active-directory/develop/guidedsetups/active-directory-ios)

[!INCLUDE [Help and support](../../../includes/active-directory-develop-help-support-include.md)]
