docs/identity-platform/quickstart-native-authentication-single-page-app-sdk-sign-in.md, before:

---
title: Sign in users in a single-page app by using native authentication SDK
description: Configure a React single-page app with native authentication SDK to let users sign up, sign in, sign out, and reset passwords. Start with this quickstart.
author: kengaderdus
manager: dougeby
ms.author: kengaderdus
ms.service: entra-external-id
ms.subservice: external
ms.topic: quickstart
ms.date: 06/30/2025
#Customer intent: As a developer, I want to configure a sample single-page application using native authentication react SDK so that I can authenticate users, including sign-up, sign-in, sign-out, and password reset flows.
---

# Quickstart: Sign in users in a single-page app by using native authentication JavaScript SDK (preview)

[!INCLUDE [applies-to-external-only](../external-id/includes/applies-to-external-only.md)]

In this Quickstart, you use a single-page application (SPA) to demonstrate how to authenticate users by using native authentication SDK. The sample app demonstrates user sign-up, sign-in, and sign-out for both email with password and email one-time passcode authentication flows.
## Prerequisites

* An Azure account with an active subscription. If you don't already have one, [Create an account for free](https://azure.microsoft.com/free/?WT.mc_id=A261C142F).
* This Azure account must have permissions to manage applications. Any of the following Microsoft Entra roles include the required permissions:
  * Application Administrator
  * Application Developer
* An external tenant. To create one, choose from the following methods:
  * Use the [Microsoft Entra External ID extension](https://aka.ms/ciamvscode/samples/marketplace) to set up an external tenant directly in Visual Studio Code. *(Recommended)*
  * [Create a new external tenant](../external-id/customers/how-to-create-external-tenant-portal.md) in the Microsoft Entra admin center.
* A user flow. For more information, see [create self-service sign-up user flows for apps in external tenants](../external-id/customers/how-to-user-flow-sign-up-sign-in-customers.md). Under **Identity providers**, select your preferred method of authentication, that's, **Email with password** or **Email one-time passcode**. For this code sample, you can include the following user attributes in your user flow as the app submit these attributes:
  * **Given Name**
  * **Surname**
  * **Job Tittle**
  * **Country**
* Register a new app in the [Microsoft Entra admin center](https://entra.microsoft.com), configured for *Accounts in this organizational directory only*. Refer to [Register an application](quickstart-register-app.md) for more details. Record the following values from the application **Overview** page for later use:
  * Application (client) ID 
  * Directory (tenant) ID
* [Add your application to the user flow](/entra/external-id/customers/how-to-user-flow-add-application)
* [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/download/).
* [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/download) or another code editor.

## Enable public client and native authentication flows 

[!INCLUDE [Enable public client and native authentication](../external-id/customers/includes/native-auth/enable-native-authentication.md)]

## Clone or download sample SPA

To obtain the sample application, you can either clone it from GitHub or download it as a .zip file.

- To clone the sample, open a command prompt and navigate to where you wish to create the project, and enter the following command:

    ```console
    git clone https://github.com/Azure-Samples/ms-identity-ciam-native-javascript-samples.git
    ```

- [Download the sample](https://github.com/Azure-Samples/ms-identity-ciam-native-javascript-samples/archive/refs/heads/main.zip). Extract it to a file path where the length of the name is fewer than 260 characters. 

## Install project dependencies

1. Open a terminal window and navigate to the directory that contains the React sample app:

    ```console
        cd typescript/native-auth/react-nextjs-sample
    ```

1. Run the following command to install app dependencies:

    ```console
    npm install
    ```

## Configure the sample React app

1. Open *src\config\auth-config.ts* and replace the following placeholders with the values obtained from the Microsoft Entra admin center:

    * Find the placeholder `Enter_the_Application_Id_Here` then  replace it with the Application (client) ID of the app you registered earlier.
    * Find the placeholder `Enter_the_Tenant_Subdomain_Here` then replace it with the tenant subdomain in your Microsoft Entra admin center. For example, if your tenant primary domain is `contoso.onmicrosoft.com`, use `contoso`. If you don't have your tenant name, learn how to [read your tenant details](../external-id/customers/how-to-create-external-tenant-portal.md#get-the-external-tenant-details). 

1. Save the changes.

## Configure CORS proxy server

The native authentication API doesn't support [Cross-Origin Resource Sharing (CORS)](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/HTTP/CORS) so you must set up a proxy server between your SPA app and the APIs.

This code sample includes a CORS proxy server that forwards requests to native authentication API URL endpoints. The CORS proxy server is a Node.js server that listens on port 3001.

To configure the proxy server, open the *react-nextjs-sample/proxy.config.js* file, then the find the placeholder:

- `tenantSubdomain` and replace it with the Directory (tenant) subdomain. For example, if your tenant primary domain is `contoso.onmicrosoft.com`, use `contoso`. If you don't have your tenant subdomain, learn how to [read your tenant details](../external-id/customers/how-to-create-external-tenant-portal.md#get-the-external-tenant-details).
- `tenantId` and replace it with the Directory (tenant) ID. If you don't have your tenant ID, learn how to [read your tenant details](../external-id/customers/how-to-create-external-tenant-portal.md#get-the-external-tenant-details).

## Run and test your app

You've now configured the sample app and it's ready to run.

1. From your terminal window, run the following commands to start the CORS proxy server:

    ```console
    cd typescript/native-auth/react-nextjs-sample/
    npm run cors
    ```

1. To start your React app, open another terminal window, then run the following commands:

    ```console
    cd typescript/native-auth/react-nextjs-sample/
    npm run dev
    ```

1. Open a web browser and go to `http://localhost:3000/`.

1. To sign up for an account, select **Sign Up**, then follow the prompts.

1. After you sign up, test sign-in and password reset by selecting **Sign In** and **Reset Password** buttorespectively.

## Related content

- [Build a React single-page app that uses native authentication SDK to authenticate users](tutorial-native-authentication-single-page-app-react-sdk-sign-up.md).

Commit message:

add Angular quickstart and update CORS server to be sharable

docs/identity-platform/quickstart-native-authentication-single-page-app-sdk-sign-in.md, after:

---
title: Sign in users in a single-page app by using native authentication SDK
description: Configure a React single-page app with native authentication SDK to let users sign up, sign in, sign out, and reset passwords. Start with this quickstart.
author: kengaderdus
manager: dougeby
ms.author: kengaderdus
ms.service: entra-external-id
ms.subservice: external
ms.topic: quickstart
ms.date: 06/30/2025
#Customer intent: As a developer, I want to configure a sample single-page application using native authentication react SDK so that I can authenticate users, including sign-up, sign-in, sign-out, and password reset flows.
---

# Quickstart: Sign in users in a single-page app by using native authentication JavaScript SDK (preview)

[!INCLUDE [applies-to-external-only](../external-id/includes/applies-to-external-only.md)]

In this Quickstart, you use a single-page application (SPA) to demonstrate how to authenticate users by using native authentication SDK. The sample app demonstrates user sign-up, sign-in, and sign-out for both email with password and email one-time passcode authentication flows.

## Prerequisites

* An Azure account with an active subscription. If you don't already have one, [Create an account for free](https://azure.microsoft.com/free/?WT.mc_id=A261C142F).
* This Azure account must have permissions to manage applications. Any of the following Microsoft Entra roles include the required permissions:
  * Application Administrator
  * Application Developer
* An external tenant. To create one, choose from the following methods:
  * Use the [Microsoft Entra External ID extension](https://aka.ms/ciamvscode/samples/marketplace) to set up an external tenant directly in Visual Studio Code. *(Recommended)*
  * [Create a new external tenant](../external-id/customers/how-to-create-external-tenant-portal.md) in the Microsoft Entra admin center.
* A user flow. For more information, see [create self-service sign-up user flows for apps in external tenants](../external-id/customers/how-to-user-flow-sign-up-sign-in-customers.md). Under **Identity providers**, select your preferred method of authentication, that's, **Email with password** or **Email one-time passcode**. For this code sample, you can include the following user attributes in your user flow as the app submit these attributes:
  * **Given Name**
  * **Surname**
  * **Job Tittle**
  * **Country**
* Register a new app in the [Microsoft Entra admin center](https://entra.microsoft.com), configured for *Accounts in this organizational directory only*. Refer to [Register an application](quickstart-register-app.md) for more details. Record the following values from the application **Overview** page for later use:
  * Application (client) ID 
  * Directory (tenant) ID
* [Add your application to the user flow](/entra/external-id/customers/how-to-user-flow-add-application)
* [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/download/).
* [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/download) or another code editor.

## Enable public client and native authentication flows 

[!INCLUDE [Enable public client and native authentication](../external-id/customers/includes/native-auth/enable-native-authentication.md)]

## Clone or download sample SPA

To obtain the sample application, you can either clone it from GitHub or download it as a .zip file.

- To clone the sample, open a command prompt and navigate to where you wish to create the project, and enter the following command:

    ```console
    git clone https://github.com/Azure-Samples/ms-identity-ciam-native-javascript-samples.git
    ```

- [Download the sample](https://github.com/Azure-Samples/ms-identity-ciam-native-javascript-samples/archive/refs/heads/main.zip). Extract it to a file path where the length of the name is fewer than 260 characters. 

## Install project dependencies

#### [React](#tab/react)

1. Open a terminal window and navigate to the directory that contains the React sample app:

    ```console
        cd typescript/native-auth/react-nextjs-sample
    ```
#### [Angular](#tab/angular)

1. Open a terminal window and navigate to the directory that contains the React sample app:

    ```console
        cd typescript/native-auth/angular-sample
    ```

---

1. Run the following command to install app dependencies:

    ```console
    npm install
    ```

## Configure the sample React app

#### [React](#tab/react)

1. Open *src\config\auth-config.ts* and replace the following placeholders with the values obtained from the Microsoft Entra admin center:

    * Find the placeholder `Enter_the_Application_Id_Here` then  replace it with the Application (client) ID of the app you registered earlier.
    * Find the placeholder `Enter_the_Tenant_Subdomain_Here` then replace it with the tenant subdomain in your Microsoft Entra admin center. For example, if your tenant primary domain is `contoso.onmicrosoft.com`, use `contoso`. If you don't have your tenant name, learn how to [read your tenant details](../external-id/customers/how-to-create-external-tenant-portal.md#get-the-external-tenant-details). 

1. Save the changes.

#### [Angular](#tab/angular)


1. Open *src/app/config/auth-config.ts* and replace the following placeholders with the values obtained from the Microsoft Entra admin center:

    * Find the placeholder `Enter_the_Application_Id_Here` then  replace it with the Application (client) ID of the app you registered earlier.
    * Find the placeholder `Enter_the_Tenant_Subdomain_Here` then replace it with the tenant subdomain in your Microsoft Entra admin center. For example, if your tenant primary domain is `contoso.onmicrosoft.com`, use `contoso`. If you don't have your tenant name, learn how to [read your tenant details](../external-id/customers/how-to-create-external-tenant-portal.

1. Save the changes.

---


## Configure CORS proxy server

The native authentication API doesn't support [Cross-Origin Resource Sharing (CORS)](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/HTTP/CORS) so you must set up a proxy server between your SPA app and the APIs.

This code sample includes a CORS proxy server that forwards requests to native authentication API URL endpoints. The CORS proxy server is a Node.js server that listens on port 3001.

To configure the proxy server, open the *proxy.config.js* file, then the find the placeholder:

- `tenantSubdomain` and replace it with the Directory (tenant) subdomain. For example, if your tenant primary domain is `contoso.onmicrosoft.com`, use `contoso`. If you don't have your tenant subdomain, learn how to [read your tenant details](../external-id/customers/how-to-create-external-tenant-portal.md#get-the-external-tenant-details).
- `tenantId` and replace it with the Directory (tenant) ID. If you don't have your tenant ID, learn how to [read your tenant details](../external-id/customers/how-to-create-external-tenant-portal.md#get-the-external-tenant-details).

## Run and test your app

You've now configured the sample app and it's ready to run.

1. From your terminal window, run the following commands to start the CORS proxy server:

    ```console
    cd typescript/native-auth/react-nextjs-sample/
    npm run cors
    ```

1. To start your React app, open another terminal window, then run the following commands:

    ```console
    cd typescript/native-auth/react-nextjs-sample/
    npm run dev
    ```

1. Open a web browser and go to `http://localhost:3000/`.

1. To sign up for an account, select **Sign Up**, then follow the prompts.

1. After you sign up, test sign-in and password reset by selecting **Sign In** and **Reset Password** buttorespectively.

## Related content

- [Build a React single-page app that uses native authentication SDK to authenticate users](tutorial-native-authentication-single-page-app-react-sdk-sign-up.md).
- [Build your Angular single-page app that uses native authentication SDK to authenticate users](tutorial-native-authentication-single-page-app-angular-sign-up.md).
