docs/identity-platform/reference-v2-libraries.md, before:

---
title: Microsoft identity platform authentication libraries | Microsoft Docs
description: Compatible client libraries and server middleware libraries, along with related library, source, and sample links, for the Microsoft identity platform endpoint.
services: active-directory
documentationcenter: ''
author: negoe
manager: CelesteDG
editor: ''

ms.assetid: 19cec615-e51f-4141-9f8c-aaf38ff9f746
ms.service: active-directory
ms.subservice: develop
ms.devlang: na
ms.topic: article
ms.tgt_pltfrm: na
ms.workload: identity
ms.date: 07/19/2019
ms.author: negoe
ms.reviewer: jmprieur, saeeda
ms.custom: aaddev
ms.collection: M365-identity-device-management
---

# Microsoft identity platform authentication libraries

The [Microsoft identity platform endpoint](active-directory-v2-compare.md) supports the industry-standard OAuth 2.0 and OpenID Connect 1.0 protocols. The Microsoft Authentication Library (MSAL) is designed to work with the Microsoft identity platform endpoint. You can also use open-source libraries that support OAuth 2.0 and OpenID Connect 1.0.

We recommend that you use libraries written by protocol domain experts who follow a Security Development Lifecycle (SDL) methodology. Such libraries include [the one that Microsoft follows][Microsoft-SDL]. If you hand code for the protocols, you should follow a methodology such as Microsoft SDL. Pay close attention to the security considerations in the standards specifications for each protocol.

> [!NOTE]
> Are you looking for the Azure Active Directory Authentication Library (ADAL)? Check out the [ADAL library guide](active-directory-authentication-libraries.md).

## Types of libraries

The Microsoft identity platform endpoint works with two types of libraries:

* **Client libraries**: Native clients and servers use client libraries to acquire access tokens for calling a resource such as Microsoft Graph.
* **Server middleware libraries**: Web apps use server middleware libraries for user sign in. Web APIs use server middleware libraries to validate tokens that are sent by native clients or by other servers.

## Library support

Libraries come in two support categories:

* **Microsoft-supported**: Microsoft provides fixes for these libraries and has done SDL due diligence on these libraries.
* **Compatible**: Microsoft has tested these libraries in basic scenarios and has confirmed that they work with the Microsoft identity platform endpoint. Microsoft doesn't provide fixes for these libraries and hasn't done a review of these libraries. Issues and feature requests should be directed to the library’s open-source project.

For a list of libraries that work with the Microsoft identity platform endpoint, see the following sections.

## Microsoft-supported client libraries

Use client authentication libraries to acquire a token for calling a protected web API.

| Platform | Library | Download | Source code | Sample | Reference | Conceptual doc | Roadmap |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| ![JavaScript](media/sample-v2-code/logo_js.png) | MSAL.js  | [NPM](https://www.npmjs.com/package/msal) |[GitHub](https://github.com/AzureAD/microsoft-authentication-library-for-js/blob/dev/README.md) |  [Single-page app](https://github.com/Azure-Samples/active-directory-javascript-singlepageapp-dotnet-webapi-v2) | [Reference](https://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://raw.githubusercontent.com/AzureAD/microsoft-authentication-library-for-js/blob/dev/lib/msal-core/docs/classes/_useragentapplication_.useragentapplication.html) | [Conceptual docs](msal-overview.md)| [Roadmap](https://github.com/AzureAD/microsoft-authentication-library-for-js/wiki#roadmap)
|![Angular JS](media/sample-v2-code/logo_angular.png) | MSAL Angular JS | [NPM](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@azure/msal-angularjs) | [GitHub](https://github.com/AzureAD/microsoft-authentication-library-for-js/blob/dev/lib/msal-angularjs/README.md) |  |  | |
![Angular](media/sample-v2-code/logo_angular.png) | MSAL Angular (Preview) | [NPM](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@azure/msal-angular) |[GitHub](https://github.com/AzureAD/microsoft-authentication-library-for-js/blob/dev/lib/msal-angular/README.md) | | | |
| ![.NET Framework](media/sample-v2-code/logo_NET.png) ![UWP](media/sample-v2-code/logo_windows.png) ![Xamarin](media/sample-v2-code/logo_xamarin.png) | MSAL.NET  |[NuGet](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.Identity.Client) |[GitHub](https://github.com/AzureAD/microsoft-authentication-library-for-dotnet) | [Desktop app](guidedsetups/active-directory-mobileanddesktopapp-windowsdesktop-intro.md) | [MSAL.NET](https://docs.microsoft.com/dotnet/api/microsoft.identity.client?view=azure-dotnet-preview) |[Conceptual docs](msal-overview.md) | [Roadmap](https://github.com/AzureAD/microsoft-authentication-library-for-dotnet/wiki#roadmap)
| ![Python](media/sample-v2-code/logo_python.png) | MSAL Python (Preview) | [PyPI](https://pypi.org/project/msal) | [GitHub](https://github.com/AzureAD/microsoft-authentication-library-for-python) | [Samples](https://github.com/AzureAD/microsoft-authentication-library-for-python/tree/dev/sample) | [ReadTheDocs](https://msal-python.rtfd.io/) | [Wiki](https://github.com/AzureAD/microsoft-authentication-library-for-python/wiki) | [Roadmap](https://github.com/AzureAD/microsoft-authentication-library-for-python/wiki/Roadmap)
| ![Java](media/sample-v2-code/logo_java.png) | MSAL Java (Preview) | [Maven](https://mvnrepository.com/artifact/com.microsoft.azure/msal4j) | [GitHub](https://github.com/AzureAD/microsoft-authentication-library-for-java) | [Samples](https://github.com/AzureAD/microsoft-authentication-library-for-java/tree/dev/src/samples) | | [Wiki](https://github.com/AzureAD/microsoft-authentication-library-for-java/wiki) | [Roadmap](https://github.com/AzureAD/microsoft-authentication-library-for-java/wiki)
| ![iOS / Objective C or swift](media/sample-v2-code/logo_iOS.png) | MSAL obj_c (Preview) | [GitHub](https://github.com/AzureAD/microsoft-authentication-library-for-objc) |[GitHub](https://github.com/AzureAD/microsoft-authentication-library-for-objc) | [iOS app](https://github.com/Azure-Samples/active-directory-msal-ios-swift) |  | [Wiki](https://github.com/AzureAD/microsoft-authentication-library-for-objc/wiki) | |
|![Android / Java](media/sample-v2-code/logo_Android.png) | MSAL (Preview) | [Central repository](https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/com/microsoft/identity/client/msal/) |[GitHub](https://github.com/AzureAD/microsoft-authentication-library-for-android) | [Android app](quickstart-v2-android.md) | [JavaDocs](https://javadoc.io/doc/com.microsoft.identity.client/msal) | [Wiki](https://github.com/AzureAD/microsoft-authentication-library-for-android/wiki) |

## Microsoft-supported server middleware libraries

Use middleware libraries to help protect web applications and web APIs. Web apps or web APIs written with ASP.NET or ASP.NET Core use the middleware libraries.

| Platform | Library | Download | Source Code | Sample | Reference
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| ![.NET](media/sample-v2-code/logo_NET.png) ![.NET Core](media/sample-v2-code/logo_NETcore.png) | ASP.NET Security |[NuGet](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.AspNet.Mvc/) |[GitHub](https://github.com/aspnet/AspNetCore) |[MVC app](quickstart-v2-aspnet-webapp.md) |[ASP.NET API reference](https://docs.microsoft.com/dotnet/api/?view=aspnetcore-2.0) |
| ![.NET](media/sample-v2-code/logo_NET.png)| IdentityModel Extensions for .NET| |[GitHub](https://github.com/AzureAD/azure-activedirectory-identitymodel-extensions-for-dotnet) | [MVC app](quickstart-v2-aspnet-webapp.md) |[Reference](https://docs.microsoft.com/dotnet/api/overview/azure/activedirectory/client?view=azure-dotnet) |
| ![Node.js](media/sample-v2-code/logo_nodejs.png) | Azure AD Passport |[NPM](https://www.npmjs.com/package/passport-azure-ad) |[GitHub](https://github.com/AzureAD/passport-azure-ad) | [Web app](https://github.com/AzureADQuickStarts/AppModelv2-WebApp-OpenIDConnect-nodejs) | |

## Microsoft-supported libraries by OS / language

In term of supported operating systems vs languages, the mapping is the following:

|             | ![Windows](media/sample-v2-code/logo_windows.png) Windows    | Linux      | macOS      | ![iOS](media/sample-v2-code/logo_iOS.png)        | ![Android / Java](media/sample-v2-code/logo_Android.png) Android    |
|-------------|------------|------------|------------|------------|------------|
| ![JavaScript](media/sample-v2-code/logo_js.png)  |  MSAL.js | MSAL.js | MSAL.js | MSAL.js |  MSAL.js |
| <img alt="C#" src="../../cognitive-services/speech-service/media/index/logo_csharp.svg" width="64px" height="64px" /> | ASP.NET, ASP.NET Core, MSAL.Net (.NET FW,  Core, UWP)| ASP.NET Core, MSAL.Net (.NET Core) | ASP.NET Core, MSAL.Net (MacOS)       | MSAL.Net (Xamarin.iOS) | MSAL.Net (Xamarin.Android)|
| <img alt="Objective C" src="../../cognitive-services/speech-service/media/index/logo_objc.jpg" width="64px" height="64px" /> |            |            |        | MSAL.iOS |            |
| ![Java](media/sample-v2-code/logo_java.png) Java       |        |        |       | | MSAL.Android
| ![Java](media/sample-v2-code/logo_java.png) Java       | msal4j       | msal4j       | msal4j      | |
| ![Python](media/sample-v2-code/logo_python.png) Python     | MSAL Python | MSAL Python | MSAL Python |
| ![Node.Js](media/sample-v2-code/logo_nodejs.png) Node.JS     | Passport.node | Passport.node | Passport.node |

## Compatible client libraries

| Platform | Library name | Tested version | Source code | Sample |
|:---:|:---:|:---:|:---:|:---:|
|![JavaScript](media/sample-v2-code/logo_js.png)|[Hello.js](https://adodson.com/hello.js/) | Version 1.13.5 |[Hello.js](https://github.com/MrSwitch/hello.js) |[SPA](https://github.com/Azure-Samples/active-directory-javascript-graphapi-web-v2) |
| ![Java](media/sample-v2-code/logo_java.png) | [Scribe Java](https://github.com/scribejava/scribejava) | [Version 3.2.0](https://github.com/scribejava/scribejava/releases/tag/scribejava-3.2.0) | [ScribeJava](https://github.com/scribejava/scribejava/) | |
| ![Java](media/sample-v2-code/logo_java.png) | [Gluu OpenID Connect library](https://github.com/GluuFederation/oxAuth) | [Version 3.0.2](https://github.com/GluuFederation/oxAuth/releases/tag/3.0.2) | [Gluu OpenID Connect library](https://github.com/GluuFederation/oxAuth) | |
| ![Python](media/sample-v2-code/logo_python.png) | [Requests-OAuthlib](https://github.com/requests/requests-oauthlib) | [Version 1.2.0](https://github.com/requests/requests-oauthlib/releases/tag/v1.2.0) | [Requests-OAuthlib](https://github.com/requests/requests-oauthlib) | |
| ![Node.js](media/sample-v2-code/logo_nodejs.png) | [openid-client](https://github.com/panva/node-openid-client) | [Version 2.4.5](https://github.com/panva/node-openid-client/releases/tag/v2.4.5) | [openid-client](https://github.com/panva/node-openid-client) | |
| ![PHP](media/sample-v2-code/logo_php.png) | [The PHP League oauth2-client](https://github.com/thephpleague/oauth2-client) | [Version 1.4.2](https://github.com/thephpleague/oauth2-client/releases/tag/1.4.2) | [oauth2-client](https://github.com/thephpleague/oauth2-client/) | |
| ![Ruby](media/sample-v2-code/logo_ruby.png) |[OmniAuth](https://github.com/omniauth/omniauth/wiki) |omniauth: 1.3.1<br />omniauth-oauth2: 1.4.0 |[OmniAuth](https://github.com/omniauth/omniauth)<br />[OmniAuth OAuth2](https://github.com/intridea/omniauth-oauth2) |  |
| ![iOS](media/sample-v2-code/logo_iOS.png) ![Android](media/sample-v2-code/logo_Android.png) | [React Native App Auth](https://github.com/FormidableLabs/react-native-app-auth) | [Version 4.2.0](https://github.com/FormidableLabs/react-native-app-auth/releases/tag/v4.2.0) | [React Native App Auth](https://github.com/FormidableLabs/react-native-app-auth) | |

For any standards-compliant library, you can use the Microsoft identity platform endpoint. It’s important to know where to go for support:

* For issues and new feature requests in library code, contact the library owner.
* For issues and new feature requests in the service-side protocol implementation, contact Microsoft.
* [File a feature request](https://feedback.azure.com/forums/169401-azure-active-directory) for additional features you want to see in the protocol.
* [Create a support request](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/azure-supportability/how-to-create-azure-support-request) if you find an issue where the Microsoft identity platform endpoint isn't compliant with OAuth 2.0 or OpenID Connect 1.0.

## Related content

For more information about the Microsoft identity platform endpoint, see the [Microsoft identity platform overview][AAD-App-Model-V2-Overview].

<!--Image references-->

<!--Reference style links -->
[AAD-App-Model-V2-Overview]: v2-overview.md
[ClientLib-NET-Lib]: https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.Identity.Client
[ClientLib-NET-Repo]: https://github.com/AzureAD/microsoft-authentication-library-for-dotnet
[ClientLib-NET-Sample]: active-directory-v2-devquickstarts-wpf.md
[ClientLib-Node-Lib]: https://www.npmjs.com/package/passport-azure-ad
[ClientLib-Node-Repo]: https://github.com/AzureAD/passport-azure-ad
[ClientLib-Node-Sample]:/
[ClientLib-Iosmac-Lib]:/
[ClientLib-Iosmac-Repo]:/
[ClientLib-Iosmac-Sample]:/
[ClientLib-Android-Lib]:/
[ClientLib-Android-Repo]:/
[ClientLib-Android-Sample]:/
[ClientLib-Js-Lib]:/
[ClientLib-Js-Repo]:/
[ClientLib-Js-Sample]:/

[Microsoft-SDL]: https://www.microsoft.com/sdl/default.aspx
[ServerLib-Net4-Owin-Oidc-Lib]: https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.Owin.Security.OpenIdConnect/
[ServerLib-Net4-Owin-Oidc-Repo]: https://katanaproject.codeplex.com/
[ServerLib-Net4-Owin-Oidc-Sample]: active-directory-v2-devquickstarts-dotnet-web.md
[ServerLib-Net4-Owin-Oauth-Lib]: https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.Owin.Security.OAuth/
[ServerLib-Net4-Owin-Oauth-Repo]: https://katanaproject.codeplex.com/
[ServerLib-Net4-Owin-Oauth-Sample]: https://azure.microsoft.com/documentation/articles/active-directory-v2-devquickstarts-dotnet-api/
[ServerLib-Net-Jwt-Lib]: https://www.nuget.org/packages/System.IdentityModel.Tokens.Jwt
[ServerLib-Net-Jwt-Repo]: https://github.com/AzureAD/azure-activedirectory-identitymodel-extensions-for-dotnet
[ServerLib-Net-Jwt-Sample]:/
[ServerLib-NetCore-Owin-Oidc-Lib]: https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.AspNetCore.Authentication.OpenIdConnect/
[ServerLib-NetCore-Owin-Oidc-Repo]: https://github.com/aspnet/Security
[ServerLib-NetCore-Owin-Oidc-Sample]: https://github.com/Azure-Samples/active-directory-dotnet-webapp-openidconnect-aspnetcore-v2
[ServerLib-NetCore-Owin-Oauth-Lib]: https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.AspNetCore.Authentication.OAuth/
[ServerLib-NetCore-Owin-Oauth-Repo]: https://github.com/aspnet/Security
[ServerLib-NetCore-Owin-Oauth-Sample]:/
[ServerLib-Node-Lib]: https://www.npmjs.com/package/passport-azure-ad
[ServerLib-Node-Repo]: https://github.com/AzureAD/passport-azure-ad/
[ServerLib-Node-Sample]: https://azure.microsoft.com/documentation/articles/active-directory-v2-devquickstarts-node-web/

Commit message:

Cross referencing scenarios and libraries pivoted by OS and languages

docs/identity-platform/reference-v2-libraries.md, after:

---
title: Microsoft identity platform authentication libraries | Microsoft Docs
description: Compatible client libraries and server middleware libraries, along with related library, source, and sample links, for the Microsoft identity platform endpoint.
services: active-directory
documentationcenter: ''
author: negoe
manager: CelesteDG
editor: ''

ms.assetid: 19cec615-e51f-4141-9f8c-aaf38ff9f746
ms.service: active-directory
ms.subservice: develop
ms.devlang: na
ms.topic: article
ms.tgt_pltfrm: na
ms.workload: identity
ms.date: 07/25/2019
ms.author: negoe
ms.reviewer: jmprieur, saeeda
ms.custom: aaddev
ms.collection: M365-identity-device-management
---

# Microsoft identity platform authentication libraries

The [Microsoft identity platform endpoint](active-directory-v2-compare.md) supports the industry-standard OAuth 2.0 and OpenID Connect 1.0 protocols. The Microsoft Authentication Library (MSAL) is designed to work with the Microsoft identity platform endpoint. You can also use open-source libraries that support OAuth 2.0 and OpenID Connect 1.0.

We recommend that you use libraries written by protocol domain experts who follow a Security Development Lifecycle (SDL) methodology. Such libraries include [the one that Microsoft follows][Microsoft-SDL]. If you hand code for the protocols, you should follow a methodology such as Microsoft SDL. Pay close attention to the security considerations in the standards specifications for each protocol.

> [!NOTE]
> Are you looking for the Azure Active Directory Authentication Library (ADAL)? Check out the [ADAL library guide](active-directory-authentication-libraries.md).

## Types of libraries

The Microsoft identity platform endpoint works with two types of libraries:

* **Client libraries**: Native clients and servers use client libraries to acquire access tokens for calling a resource such as Microsoft Graph.
* **Server middleware libraries**: Web apps use server middleware libraries for user sign in. Web APIs use server middleware libraries to validate tokens that are sent by native clients or by other servers.

## Library support

Libraries come in two support categories:

* **Microsoft-supported**: Microsoft provides fixes for these libraries and has done SDL due diligence on these libraries.
* **Compatible**: Microsoft has tested these libraries in basic scenarios and has confirmed that they work with the Microsoft identity platform endpoint. Microsoft doesn't provide fixes for these libraries and hasn't done a review of these libraries. Issues and feature requests should be directed to the library’s open-source project.

For a list of libraries that work with the Microsoft identity platform endpoint, see the following sections.

## Microsoft-supported client libraries

Use client authentication libraries to acquire a token for calling a protected web API.

| Platform | Library | Download | Source code | Sample | Reference | Conceptual doc | Roadmap |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| ![JavaScript](media/sample-v2-code/logo_js.png) | MSAL.js  | [NPM](https://www.npmjs.com/package/msal) |[GitHub](https://github.com/AzureAD/microsoft-authentication-library-for-js/blob/dev/README.md) |  [Single-page app](https://github.com/Azure-Samples/active-directory-javascript-singlepageapp-dotnet-webapi-v2) | [Reference](https://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://raw.githubusercontent.com/AzureAD/microsoft-authentication-library-for-js/blob/dev/lib/msal-core/docs/classes/_useragentapplication_.useragentapplication.html) | [Conceptual docs](msal-overview.md)| [Roadmap](https://github.com/AzureAD/microsoft-authentication-library-for-js/wiki#roadmap)
|![Angular JS](media/sample-v2-code/logo_angular.png) | MSAL Angular JS | [NPM](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@azure/msal-angularjs) | [GitHub](https://github.com/AzureAD/microsoft-authentication-library-for-js/blob/dev/lib/msal-angularjs/README.md) |  |  | |
![Angular](media/sample-v2-code/logo_angular.png) | MSAL Angular (Preview) | [NPM](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@azure/msal-angular) |[GitHub](https://github.com/AzureAD/microsoft-authentication-library-for-js/blob/dev/lib/msal-angular/README.md) | | | |
| ![.NET Framework](media/sample-v2-code/logo_NET.png) ![UWP](media/sample-v2-code/logo_windows.png) ![Xamarin](media/sample-v2-code/logo_xamarin.png) | MSAL.NET  |[NuGet](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.Identity.Client) |[GitHub](https://github.com/AzureAD/microsoft-authentication-library-for-dotnet) | [Desktop app](guidedsetups/active-directory-mobileanddesktopapp-windowsdesktop-intro.md) | [MSAL.NET](https://docs.microsoft.com/dotnet/api/microsoft.identity.client?view=azure-dotnet-preview) |[Conceptual docs](msal-overview.md) | [Roadmap](https://github.com/AzureAD/microsoft-authentication-library-for-dotnet/wiki#roadmap)
| ![Python](media/sample-v2-code/logo_python.png) | MSAL Python (Preview) | [PyPI](https://pypi.org/project/msal) | [GitHub](https://github.com/AzureAD/microsoft-authentication-library-for-python) | [Samples](https://github.com/AzureAD/microsoft-authentication-library-for-python/tree/dev/sample) | [ReadTheDocs](https://msal-python.rtfd.io/) | [Wiki](https://github.com/AzureAD/microsoft-authentication-library-for-python/wiki) | [Roadmap](https://github.com/AzureAD/microsoft-authentication-library-for-python/wiki/Roadmap)
| ![Java](media/sample-v2-code/logo_java.png) | MSAL Java (Preview) | [Maven](https://mvnrepository.com/artifact/com.microsoft.azure/msal4j) | [GitHub](https://github.com/AzureAD/microsoft-authentication-library-for-java) | [Samples](https://github.com/AzureAD/microsoft-authentication-library-for-java/tree/dev/src/samples) | | [Wiki](https://github.com/AzureAD/microsoft-authentication-library-for-java/wiki) | [Roadmap](https://github.com/AzureAD/microsoft-authentication-library-for-java/wiki)
| ![iOS / Objective C or swift](media/sample-v2-code/logo_iOS.png) | MSAL obj_c (Preview) | [GitHub](https://github.com/AzureAD/microsoft-authentication-library-for-objc) |[GitHub](https://github.com/AzureAD/microsoft-authentication-library-for-objc) | [iOS app](https://github.com/Azure-Samples/active-directory-msal-ios-swift) |  | [Wiki](https://github.com/AzureAD/microsoft-authentication-library-for-objc/wiki) | |
|![Android / Java](media/sample-v2-code/logo_Android.png) | MSAL (Preview) | [Central repository](https://repo1.maven.org/maven2/com/microsoft/identity/client/msal/) |[GitHub](https://github.com/AzureAD/microsoft-authentication-library-for-android) | [Android app](quickstart-v2-android.md) | [JavaDocs](https://javadoc.io/doc/com.microsoft.identity.client/msal) | [Wiki](https://github.com/AzureAD/microsoft-authentication-library-for-android/wiki) |

## Microsoft-supported server middleware libraries

Use middleware libraries to help protect web applications and web APIs. Web apps or web APIs written with ASP.NET or ASP.NET Core use the middleware libraries.

| Platform | Library | Download | Source Code | Sample | Reference
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| ![.NET](media/sample-v2-code/logo_NET.png) ![.NET Core](media/sample-v2-code/logo_NETcore.png) | ASP.NET Security |[NuGet](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.AspNet.Mvc/) |[GitHub](https://github.com/aspnet/AspNetCore) |[MVC app](quickstart-v2-aspnet-webapp.md) |[ASP.NET API reference](https://docs.microsoft.com/dotnet/api/?view=aspnetcore-2.0) |
| ![.NET](media/sample-v2-code/logo_NET.png)| IdentityModel Extensions for .NET| |[GitHub](https://github.com/AzureAD/azure-activedirectory-identitymodel-extensions-for-dotnet) | [MVC app](quickstart-v2-aspnet-webapp.md) |[Reference](https://docs.microsoft.com/dotnet/api/overview/azure/activedirectory/client?view=azure-dotnet) |
| ![Node.js](media/sample-v2-code/logo_nodejs.png) | Azure AD Passport |[NPM](https://www.npmjs.com/package/passport-azure-ad) |[GitHub](https://github.com/AzureAD/passport-azure-ad) | [Web app](https://github.com/AzureADQuickStarts/AppModelv2-WebApp-OpenIDConnect-nodejs) | |

## Microsoft-supported libraries by OS / language

In term of supported operating systems vs languages, the mapping is the following:

|             | ![Windows](media/sample-v2-code/logo_windows.png) Windows    | Linux      | macOS      | ![iOS](media/sample-v2-code/logo_iOS.png)        | ![Android / Java](media/sample-v2-code/logo_Android.png) Android    |
|-------------|------------|------------|------------|------------|------------|
| ![JavaScript](media/sample-v2-code/logo_js.png)  |  MSAL.js | MSAL.js | MSAL.js | MSAL.js |  MSAL.js |
| <img alt="C#" src="../../cognitive-services/speech-service/media/index/logo_csharp.svg" width="64px" height="64px" /> | ASP.NET, ASP.NET Core, MSAL.Net (.NET FW,  Core, UWP)| ASP.NET Core, MSAL.Net (.NET Core) | ASP.NET Core, MSAL.Net (MacOS)       | MSAL.Net (Xamarin.iOS) | MSAL.Net (Xamarin.Android)|
| <img alt="Objective C" src="../../cognitive-services/speech-service/media/index/logo_objc.jpg" width="64px" height="64px" /> |            |            |        | MSAL.iOS |            |
| ![Java](media/sample-v2-code/logo_java.png) Java       |        |        |       | | MSAL.Android
| ![Java](media/sample-v2-code/logo_java.png) Java       | msal4j       | msal4j       | msal4j      | |
| ![Python](media/sample-v2-code/logo_python.png) Python     | MSAL Python | MSAL Python | MSAL Python |
| ![Node.Js](media/sample-v2-code/logo_nodejs.png) Node.JS     | Passport.node | Passport.node | Passport.node |

See also [Scenarios by supported platforms and languages](authentication-flows-app-scenarios.md#scenarios-and-supported-platforms-and-languages)

## Compatible client libraries

| Platform | Library name | Tested version | Source code | Sample |
|:---:|:---:|:---:|:---:|:---:|
|![JavaScript](media/sample-v2-code/logo_js.png)|[Hello.js](https://adodson.com/hello.js/) | Version 1.13.5 |[Hello.js](https://github.com/MrSwitch/hello.js) |[SPA](https://github.com/Azure-Samples/active-directory-javascript-graphapi-web-v2) |
| ![Java](media/sample-v2-code/logo_java.png) | [Scribe Java](https://github.com/scribejava/scribejava) | [Version 3.2.0](https://github.com/scribejava/scribejava/releases/tag/scribejava-3.2.0) | [ScribeJava](https://github.com/scribejava/scribejava/) | |
| ![Java](media/sample-v2-code/logo_java.png) | [Gluu OpenID Connect library](https://github.com/GluuFederation/oxAuth) | [Version 3.0.2](https://github.com/GluuFederation/oxAuth/releases/tag/3.0.2) | [Gluu OpenID Connect library](https://github.com/GluuFederation/oxAuth) | |
| ![Python](media/sample-v2-code/logo_python.png) | [Requests-OAuthlib](https://github.com/requests/requests-oauthlib) | [Version 1.2.0](https://github.com/requests/requests-oauthlib/releases/tag/v1.2.0) | [Requests-OAuthlib](https://github.com/requests/requests-oauthlib) | |
| ![Node.js](media/sample-v2-code/logo_nodejs.png) | [openid-client](https://github.com/panva/node-openid-client) | [Version 2.4.5](https://github.com/panva/node-openid-client/releases/tag/v2.4.5) | [openid-client](https://github.com/panva/node-openid-client) | |
| ![PHP](media/sample-v2-code/logo_php.png) | [The PHP League oauth2-client](https://github.com/thephpleague/oauth2-client) | [Version 1.4.2](https://github.com/thephpleague/oauth2-client/releases/tag/1.4.2) | [oauth2-client](https://github.com/thephpleague/oauth2-client/) | |
| ![Ruby](media/sample-v2-code/logo_ruby.png) |[OmniAuth](https://github.com/omniauth/omniauth/wiki) |omniauth: 1.3.1<br />omniauth-oauth2: 1.4.0 |[OmniAuth](https://github.com/omniauth/omniauth)<br />[OmniAuth OAuth2](https://github.com/intridea/omniauth-oauth2) |  |
| ![iOS](media/sample-v2-code/logo_iOS.png) ![Android](media/sample-v2-code/logo_Android.png) | [React Native App Auth](https://github.com/FormidableLabs/react-native-app-auth) | [Version 4.2.0](https://github.com/FormidableLabs/react-native-app-auth/releases/tag/v4.2.0) | [React Native App Auth](https://github.com/FormidableLabs/react-native-app-auth) | |

For any standards-compliant library, you can use the Microsoft identity platform endpoint. It’s important to know where to go for support:

* For issues and new feature requests in library code, contact the library owner.
* For issues and new feature requests in the service-side protocol implementation, contact Microsoft.
* [File a feature request](https://feedback.azure.com/forums/169401-azure-active-directory) for additional features you want to see in the protocol.
* [Create a support request](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/azure-supportability/how-to-create-azure-support-request) if you find an issue where the Microsoft identity platform endpoint isn't compliant with OAuth 2.0 or OpenID Connect 1.0.

## Related content

For more information about the Microsoft identity platform endpoint, see the [Microsoft identity platform overview][AAD-App-Model-V2-Overview].

<!--Image references-->

<!--Reference style links -->
[AAD-App-Model-V2-Overview]: v2-overview.md
[ClientLib-NET-Lib]: https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.Identity.Client
[ClientLib-NET-Repo]: https://github.com/AzureAD/microsoft-authentication-library-for-dotnet
[ClientLib-NET-Sample]: active-directory-v2-devquickstarts-wpf.md
[ClientLib-Node-Lib]: https://www.npmjs.com/package/passport-azure-ad
[ClientLib-Node-Repo]: https://github.com/AzureAD/passport-azure-ad
[ClientLib-Node-Sample]:/
[ClientLib-Iosmac-Lib]:/
[ClientLib-Iosmac-Repo]:/
[ClientLib-Iosmac-Sample]:/
[ClientLib-Android-Lib]:/
[ClientLib-Android-Repo]:/
[ClientLib-Android-Sample]:/
[ClientLib-Js-Lib]:/
[ClientLib-Js-Repo]:/
[ClientLib-Js-Sample]:/

[Microsoft-SDL]: https://www.microsoft.com/sdl/default.aspx
[ServerLib-Net4-Owin-Oidc-Lib]: https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.Owin.Security.OpenIdConnect/
[ServerLib-Net4-Owin-Oidc-Repo]: https://katanaproject.codeplex.com/
[ServerLib-Net4-Owin-Oidc-Sample]: active-directory-v2-devquickstarts-dotnet-web.md
[ServerLib-Net4-Owin-Oauth-Lib]: https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.Owin.Security.OAuth/
[ServerLib-Net4-Owin-Oauth-Repo]: https://katanaproject.codeplex.com/
[ServerLib-Net4-Owin-Oauth-Sample]: https://azure.microsoft.com/documentation/articles/active-directory-v2-devquickstarts-dotnet-api/
[ServerLib-Net-Jwt-Lib]: https://www.nuget.org/packages/System.IdentityModel.Tokens.Jwt
[ServerLib-Net-Jwt-Repo]: https://github.com/AzureAD/azure-activedirectory-identitymodel-extensions-for-dotnet
[ServerLib-Net-Jwt-Sample]:/
[ServerLib-NetCore-Owin-Oidc-Lib]: https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.AspNetCore.Authentication.OpenIdConnect/
[ServerLib-NetCore-Owin-Oidc-Repo]: https://github.com/aspnet/Security
[ServerLib-NetCore-Owin-Oidc-Sample]: https://github.com/Azure-Samples/active-directory-dotnet-webapp-openidconnect-aspnetcore-v2
[ServerLib-NetCore-Owin-Oauth-Lib]: https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.AspNetCore.Authentication.OAuth/
[ServerLib-NetCore-Owin-Oauth-Repo]: https://github.com/aspnet/Security
[ServerLib-NetCore-Owin-Oauth-Sample]:/
[ServerLib-Node-Lib]: https://www.npmjs.com/package/passport-azure-ad
[ServerLib-Node-Repo]: https://github.com/AzureAD/passport-azure-ad/
[ServerLib-Node-Sample]: https://azure.microsoft.com/documentation/articles/active-directory-v2-devquickstarts-node-web/
