docs/identity-platform/scenario-web-api-call-api-overview.md, before:

---
title: Build a web API that calls web APIs | Azure
titleSuffix: Microsoft identity platform
description: Learn how to build a web API that calls downstream web APIs (overview).
services: active-directory
author: jmprieur
manager: CelesteDG

ms.service: active-directory
ms.subservice: develop
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.workload: identity
ms.date: 03/03/2021
ms.author: jmprieur
ms.custom: aaddev, identityplatformtop40
#Customer intent: As an application developer, I want to know how to write a web API that calls web APIs by using the Microsoft identity platform.
---

# Scenario: A web API that calls web APIs

Learn what you need to know to build a web API that calls web APIs.

## Prerequisites

This scenario, in which a protected web API calls other web APIs, builds on [Scenario: Protected web API](scenario-protected-web-api-overview.md).

## Overview

- A web, desktop, mobile, or single-page application client (not represented in the accompanying diagram) calls a protected web API and provides a JSON Web Token (JWT) bearer token in its "Authorization" HTTP header.
- The protected web API validates the token and uses the Microsoft Authentication Library (MSAL) `AcquireTokenOnBehalfOf` method to request another token from Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) so that the protected web API can call a second web API, or downstream web API, on behalf of the user. `AcquireTokenOnBehalfOf` refreshes the token when needed.
![Diagram of a web API calling a web API](media/scenarios/web-api.svg)

## Specifics

The app registration part that's related to API permissions is classical. The app configuration involves using the OAuth 2.0 On-Behalf-Of flow to exchange the JWT bearer token against a token for a downstream API. This token is added to the token cache, where it's available in the web API's controllers, and it can then acquire a token silently to call downstream APIs.

## Next steps

Move on to the next article in this scenario,
[App registration](scenario-web-api-call-api-app-registration.md).

Commit message:

(Azure CXP) Doc Update
updated line 35 as per MicrosoftDocs/azure-docs/issues/87549 from 

The app registration part that's related to API permissions is classical. The app configuration involves using the OAuth 2.0 On-Behalf-Of flow to exchange the JWT bearer token against a token for a downstream API. This token is added to the token cache, where it's available in the web API's controllers, and it can then acquire a token silently to call downstream APIs.

to 

The app registration part that's related to API permissions is classical. The app configuration involves using the OAuth 2.0 On-Behalf-Of flow to use the JWT bearer token for obtaining a second token for a downstream API. The second token in this case is added to the token cache, where it's available in the web API's controllers. This second token can be used to acquire an access token silently to call downstream APIs whenever required. 

-------
cc: @jmprieur

docs/identity-platform/scenario-web-api-call-api-overview.md, after:

---
title: Build a web API that calls web APIs | Azure
titleSuffix: Microsoft identity platform
description: Learn how to build a web API that calls downstream web APIs (overview).
services: active-directory
author: jmprieur
manager: CelesteDG

ms.service: active-directory
ms.subservice: develop
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.workload: identity
ms.date: 03/03/2021
ms.author: jmprieur
ms.custom: aaddev, identityplatformtop40
#Customer intent: As an application developer, I want to know how to write a web API that calls web APIs by using the Microsoft identity platform.
---

# Scenario: A web API that calls web APIs

Learn what you need to know to build a web API that calls web APIs.

## Prerequisites

This scenario, in which a protected web API calls other web APIs, builds on [Scenario: Protected web API](scenario-protected-web-api-overview.md).

## Overview

- A web, desktop, mobile, or single-page application client (not represented in the accompanying diagram) calls a protected web API and provides a JSON Web Token (JWT) bearer token in its "Authorization" HTTP header.
- The protected web API validates the token and uses the Microsoft Authentication Library (MSAL) `AcquireTokenOnBehalfOf` method to request another token from Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) so that the protected web API can call a second web API, or downstream web API, on behalf of the user. `AcquireTokenOnBehalfOf` refreshes the token when needed.
![Diagram of a web API calling a web API](media/scenarios/web-api.svg)

## Specifics

The app registration part that's related to API permissions is classical. The app configuration involves using the OAuth 2.0 On-Behalf-Of flow to use the JWT bearer token for obtaining a second token for a downstream API. The second token in this case is added to the token cache, where it's available in the web API's controllers. This second token can be used to acquire an access token silently to call downstream APIs whenever required. 

## Next steps

Move on to the next article in this scenario,
[App registration](scenario-web-api-call-api-app-registration.md).
