docs/identity-platform/whats-new-docs.md, before:

---
title: "What's new in the Microsoft identity platform docs"
titleSuffix: Microsoft identity platform
description: "New and updated documentation for the Microsoft identity platform."
services: active-directory
author: mmacy
manager: CelesteDG

ms.date: 02/01/2022
ms.service: active-directory
ms.subservice: develop
ms.topic: reference
ms.workload: identity
ms.author: marsma
ms.custom: has-adal-ref
---

# Microsoft identity platform docs: What's new

Welcome to what's new in the Microsoft identity platform documentation. This article lists new docs that have been added and those that have had significant updates in the last three months.

## January 2022

### New articles

- [Access Azure AD protected resources from an app in Google Cloud (preview)](workload-identity-federation-create-trust-gcp.md)
- [Quickstart: Acquire a token and call the Microsoft Graph API by using a console app's identity](console-app-quickstart.md)
- [Quickstart: Acquire a token and call Microsoft Graph API from a desktop application](desktop-app-quickstart.md)
- [Quickstart: Add sign-in with Microsoft to a web app](web-app-quickstart.md)
- [Quickstart: Protect a web API with the Microsoft identity platform](web-api-quickstart.md)
- [Quickstart: Sign in users and call the Microsoft Graph API from a mobile application](mobile-app-quickstart.md)

### Updated articles

- [Confidential client assertions](msal-net-client-assertions.md)
- [Claims mapping policy type](reference-claims-mapping-policy-type.md)
- [Configure an app to trust a GitHub repo (preview)](workload-identity-federation-create-trust-github.md)
- [Configure an app to trust an external identity provider (preview)](workload-identity-federation-create-trust.md)
- [Exchange a SAML token issued by AD FS for a Microsoft Graph access token](v2-saml-bearer-assertion.md)
- [Logging in MSAL.js](msal-logging-js.md)
- [Permissions and consent in the Microsoft identity platform](v2-permissions-and-consent.md)
- [Quickstart: Acquire a token and call Microsoft Graph API from a Java console app using app's identity](quickstart-v2-java-daemon.md)
- [Quickstart: Acquire a token and call Microsoft Graph API from a Python console app using app's identity](quickstart-v2-python-daemon.md)
- [Quickstart: Add sign-in with Microsoft to a Java web app](quickstart-v2-java-webapp.md)
- [Quickstart: Add sign-in with Microsoft to a Python web app](quickstart-v2-python-webapp.md)
- [Quickstart: Add sign-in with Microsoft to an ASP.NET Core web app](quickstart-v2-aspnet-core-webapp.md)
- [Quickstart: ASP.NET web app that signs in Azure AD users](quickstart-v2-aspnet-webapp.md)
- [Quickstart: Get a token and call the Microsoft Graph API by using a console app's identity](quickstart-v2-netcore-daemon.md)
- [Quickstart: Protect an ASP.NET Core web API with the Microsoft identity platform](quickstart-v2-aspnet-core-web-api.md)
- [Quickstart: Sign in users and call the Microsoft Graph API from an Android app](quickstart-v2-android.md)
- [Quickstart: Sign in users and call the Microsoft Graph API from an iOS or macOS app](quickstart-v2-ios.md)

## December 2021

### New articles

- [Build Zero Trust-ready apps using Microsoft identity platform features and tools](zero-trust-for-developers.md)
- [Quickstart: Sign in users in single-page apps (SPA) using the auth code flow](single-page-app-quickstart.md)
- [Run automated integration tests](test-automate-integration-testing.md)
- [Secure identity in line-of-business application using Zero Trust principles](secure-line-of-business-apps.md)
- [What are workload identities?](workload-identities-overview.md)

### Updated articles

- [Claims mapping policy type](reference-claims-mapping-policy-type.md)
- [Microsoft identity platform developer glossary](developer-glossary.md)
- [Quickstart: Sign in and get an access token in an Angular SPA using the auth code flow](quickstart-v2-javascript-auth-code-angular.md)
- [Token cache serialization in MSAL.NET](msal-net-token-cache-serialization.md)

## November 2021

### Updated articles

- [How to migrate a Node.js app from ADAL to MSAL](msal-node-migration.md)
- [Migrate confidential client applications from ADAL.NET to MSAL.NET](msal-net-migration-confidential-client.md)
- [Microsoft identity platform access tokens](access-tokens.md)
- [Microsoft identity web authentication library](microsoft-identity-web.md)
- [Protected web API: App registration](scenario-protected-web-api-app-registration.md)
- [Providing your own HttpClient and proxy using MSAL.NET](msal-net-provide-httpclient.md)
- [Single sign-on with MSAL.js](msal-js-sso.md)
- [Token cache serialization in MSAL.NET](msal-net-token-cache-serialization.md)
- [What's new for authentication?](reference-breaking-changes.md)

Commit message:

[msid] february: whats-new-docs

docs/identity-platform/whats-new-docs.md, after:

---
title: "What's new in the Microsoft identity platform docs"
titleSuffix: Microsoft identity platform
description: "New and updated documentation for the Microsoft identity platform."
services: active-directory
author: mmacy
manager: CelesteDG

ms.date: 03/01/2022
ms.service: active-directory
ms.subservice: develop
ms.topic: reference
ms.workload: identity
ms.author: marsma
ms.custom: has-adal-ref
---

# Microsoft identity platform docs: What's new

Welcome to what's new in the Microsoft identity platform documentation. This article lists new docs that have been added and those that have had significant updates in the last three months.

## February 2022

### New articles

- [Quickstart: Sign in users and call the Microsoft Graph API from an Android app](mobile-app-quickstart-portal-android.md)
- [Quickstart: Sign in users and call the Microsoft Graph API from an iOS or macOS app](mobile-app-quickstart-portal-ios.md)

### Updated articles

- [Desktop app that calls web APIs: Acquire a token using WAM](scenario-desktop-acquire-token-wam.md)

## January 2022

### New articles

- [Access Azure AD protected resources from an app in Google Cloud (preview)](workload-identity-federation-create-trust-gcp.md)
- [Quickstart: Acquire a token and call the Microsoft Graph API by using a console app's identity](console-app-quickstart.md)
- [Quickstart: Acquire a token and call Microsoft Graph API from a desktop application](desktop-app-quickstart.md)
- [Quickstart: Add sign-in with Microsoft to a web app](web-app-quickstart.md)
- [Quickstart: Protect a web API with the Microsoft identity platform](web-api-quickstart.md)
- [Quickstart: Sign in users and call the Microsoft Graph API from a mobile application](mobile-app-quickstart.md)

### Updated articles

- [Confidential client assertions](msal-net-client-assertions.md)
- [Claims mapping policy type](reference-claims-mapping-policy-type.md)
- [Configure an app to trust a GitHub repo (preview)](workload-identity-federation-create-trust-github.md)
- [Configure an app to trust an external identity provider (preview)](workload-identity-federation-create-trust.md)
- [Exchange a SAML token issued by AD FS for a Microsoft Graph access token](v2-saml-bearer-assertion.md)
- [Logging in MSAL.js](msal-logging-js.md)
- [Permissions and consent in the Microsoft identity platform](v2-permissions-and-consent.md)
- [Quickstart: Acquire a token and call Microsoft Graph API from a Java console app using app's identity](quickstart-v2-java-daemon.md)
- [Quickstart: Acquire a token and call Microsoft Graph API from a Python console app using app's identity](quickstart-v2-python-daemon.md)
- [Quickstart: Add sign-in with Microsoft to a Java web app](quickstart-v2-java-webapp.md)
- [Quickstart: Add sign-in with Microsoft to a Python web app](quickstart-v2-python-webapp.md)
- [Quickstart: Add sign-in with Microsoft to an ASP.NET Core web app](quickstart-v2-aspnet-core-webapp.md)
- [Quickstart: ASP.NET web app that signs in Azure AD users](quickstart-v2-aspnet-webapp.md)
- [Quickstart: Get a token and call the Microsoft Graph API by using a console app's identity](quickstart-v2-netcore-daemon.md)
- [Quickstart: Protect an ASP.NET Core web API with the Microsoft identity platform](quickstart-v2-aspnet-core-web-api.md)
- [Quickstart: Sign in users and call the Microsoft Graph API from an Android app](quickstart-v2-android.md)
- [Quickstart: Sign in users and call the Microsoft Graph API from an iOS or macOS app](quickstart-v2-ios.md)

## December 2021

### New articles

- [Build Zero Trust-ready apps using Microsoft identity platform features and tools](zero-trust-for-developers.md)
- [Quickstart: Sign in users in single-page apps (SPA) using the auth code flow](single-page-app-quickstart.md)
- [Run automated integration tests](test-automate-integration-testing.md)
- [Secure identity in line-of-business application using Zero Trust principles](secure-line-of-business-apps.md)
- [What are workload identities?](workload-identities-overview.md)

### Updated articles

- [Claims mapping policy type](reference-claims-mapping-policy-type.md)
- [Microsoft identity platform developer glossary](developer-glossary.md)
- [Quickstart: Sign in and get an access token in an Angular SPA using the auth code flow](quickstart-v2-javascript-auth-code-angular.md)
- [Token cache serialization in MSAL.NET](msal-net-token-cache-serialization.md)
