docs/permissions-management/cloudknox-product-integrations.md, before:

---
title: Microsoft CloudKnox Permissions Management - View integration information about an authorization system
description: View integration information about an authorization system in Microsoft CloudKnox Permissions Management.
services: active-directory
author: Yvonne-deQ
manager: karenh444
ms.service: active-directory
ms.subservice: ciem
ms.workload: identity
ms.topic: how-to
ms.date: 01/17/2022
ms.author: v-ydequadros
---

# View integration information about an authorization system 

The **Integrations** dashboard in Microsoft CloudKnox Permissions Management (CloudKnox) allows you to view all your authorization systems in one place, and to ensure all applications are functioning as one. This information helps improve quality and performance as a whole.

## Display integration information about an authorization system 

Refer to the **Integration** subpages in CloudKnox for information about available authorization systems for integration. 

1. To display the **Integrations** dashboard, select **User** (your initials) in the upper right of the screen, and then select **Integrations.**

    The **Integrations** dashboard displays a tile for each available authorization system.

1. Select an authorization system tile to view its integration information.

## Available integrated authorization systems 

The following authorization systems may be listed in the **Integrations** dashboard, depending on which systems are integrated into the CloudKnox application.

- **ServiceNow** - Manages digital workflows for enterprise operations, and the CloudKnox integration allows you to request and approve permissions through the ServiceNow ticketing workflow.
- **Splunk** - Searches, monitors, and analyzes machine-generated data, and the CloudKnox integration enables exporting usage analytics data, alerts, and logs.
- **HashiCorp Terraform** - CloudKnox enables the generation of least-privilege policies through the Hashi Terraform provider.
- **CloudKnox API** - The CloudKnox application programming interface (API) provides access to CloudKnox features.
- **Saviynt** - Enables you to view Identity entitlements and usage inside the Saviynt console.
- **Securonix** - Enables exporting usage analytics data, alerts, and logs.




<!---## Next steps--->

<!---[Installation overview](cloudknox-installation.md)--->
<!---[Configure integration with the CloudKnox API](cloudknox-integration-api.md)--->
<!---[Sign up and deploy FortSentry in your organization](cloudknox-fortsentry-registration.md)--->

Commit message:

update product name and add preview message

docs/permissions-management/cloudknox-product-integrations.md, after:

---
title: View integration information about an authorization system in CloudKnox Permissions Management
description: View integration information about an authorization system in CloudKnox Permissions Management.
services: active-directory
author: Yvonne-deQ
manager: karenh444
ms.service: active-directory
ms.subservice: ciem
ms.workload: identity
ms.topic: how-to
ms.date: 02/02/2022
ms.author: v-ydequadros
---

# View integration information about an authorization system 

> [!IMPORTANT]
> CloudKnox Permissions Management (CloudKnox) is currently in PREVIEW.
> Some information relates to a prerelease product that may be substantially modified before it's released. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

The **Integrations** dashboard in CloudKnox Permissions Management (CloudKnox) allows you to view all your authorization systems in one place, and to ensure all applications are functioning as one. This information helps improve quality and performance as a whole.

## Display integration information about an authorization system 

Refer to the **Integration** subpages in CloudKnox for information about available authorization systems for integration. 

1. To display the **Integrations** dashboard, select **User** (your initials) in the upper right of the screen, and then select **Integrations.**

    The **Integrations** dashboard displays a tile for each available authorization system.

1. Select an authorization system tile to view its integration information.

## Available integrated authorization systems 

The following authorization systems may be listed in the **Integrations** dashboard, depending on which systems are integrated into the CloudKnox application.

- **ServiceNow**: Manages digital workflows for enterprise operations, and the CloudKnox integration allows you to request and approve permissions through the ServiceNow ticketing workflow.
- **Splunk**: Searches, monitors, and analyzes machine-generated data, and the CloudKnox integration enables exporting usage analytics data, alerts, and logs.
- **HashiCorp Terraform**: CloudKnox enables the generation of least-privilege policies through the Hashi Terraform provider.
- **CloudKnox API**: The CloudKnox application programming interface (API) provides access to CloudKnox features.
- **Saviynt**: Enables you to view Identity entitlements and usage inside the Saviynt console.
- **Securonix**: Enables exporting usage analytics data, alerts, and logs.




<!---## Next steps--->

<!---[Installation overview](cloudknox-installation.md)--->
<!---[Configure integration with the CloudKnox API](cloudknox-integration-api.md)--->
<!---[Sign up and deploy FortSentry in your organization](cloudknox-fortsentry-registration.md)--->
