docs/permissions-management/cloudknox-integration-api.md, before:

---
title: Microsoft CloudKnox Permissions Management - Set and view configuration settings
description: How to view the Microsoft CloudKnox Permissions Management API integration settings and create service accounts and roles.
services: active-directory
author: Yvonne-deQ
manager: karenh444
ms.service: active-directory
ms.subservice: ciem
ms.workload: identity
ms.topic: how-to
ms.date: 01/17/2022
ms.author: v-ydequadros
---

# Set and view configuration settings

This topic describes how to view configuration settings, create and delete a service account, and create a role in Microsoft CloudKnox Permissions Management (CloudKnox).

## View configuration settings

The **Integrations** dashboard displays the authorization systems available to you.

1. To display the **Integrations** dashboard, select **User** (your initials) in the upper right of the screen, and then select **Integrations.**

    The **Integrations** dashboard displays a tile for each available authorization system.

1. Select an authorization system tile to view the following integration information:

    1. To find out more about the CloudKnox API, select **CloudKnox API**, and then select documentation.
        <!---Add Link: [documentation](https://developer.cloudknox.io/)--->

    1. To view information about service accounts, select **Integration**:
        - **Email** - Lists the email address of the user who created the integration.
        - **Created By** - Lists the first and last name of the user who created the integration.
        - **Created On** - Lists the date and time the integration was created.
        - **Recent Activity** - Lists the date and time the integration was last used, or notes if the integration was never used.
        - **Service Account ID** - Lists the service account ID.
        - **Access Key** - Lists the access key code.

    1. To view settings information, select **Settings**:
        - **Roles can create service account** - Lists the type of roles you can create.
        - **Access Key Rotation Policy** - Lists notifications and actions you can set. 
        - **Access Key Usage Policy** - Lists notifications and actions you can set.

## Create a service account

1. On the **Integrations** dashboard, select **User**, and then select **Integrations.**
2. Click **Create Service Account**. The following information is pre-populated on the page:
    - **API Endpoint**
    - **Service Account ID**
    - **Access Key**
    - **Secret Key**

3. To copy the codes, select the **Duplicate** icon next to the respective information.

   > [!NOTE]
   >  The codes are time sensitive and will regenerate after the box is closed.

4. To regenerate the codes, at the bottom of the column, select **Regenerate**.

## Delete a service account

1. On the **Integrations** dashboard, select **User**, and then select **Integrations.**

1. On the right of the email address, select **Delete Service Account**.
 
     On the **Validate OTP To Delete [Service Name] Integration** box, a message displays asking you to check your email for a code sent to the email address on file.

     If you don't receive the code, select **Resend OTP**.

1. In the **Enter OTP** box, enter the code from the email.

1. Click **Verify**.

## Create a role

1. On the **Integrations** dashboard, select **User**, and then select **Settings**.
2. Under **Roles can create service account**, select the role you want: 
    - **Super Admin**
    - **Viewer** 
    - **Controller**

3. In the **Access Key Rotation Policy** column, select options for the following:

    - **How often should the users rotate their access keys?** - Select **30 days**, **60 days**, **90 days**, or **Never**.
    - **Notification** - Enter a whole number in the blank space within **Notify "X" days before the selected period**, or select **Don't Notify**.
    - **Action (after the key rotation period ends)** - Select **Disable Action Key** or **No Action**.

4. In the **Access Key Usage Policy** column, select options for the following:

    - **How often should the users go without using their access keys?** - Select **30 days**, **60 days**, **90 days**, or **Never**.
    - **Notification** - Enter a whole number in the blank space within **Notify "X" days before the selected period**, or select **Don't Notify**.
    - **Action (after the key rotation period ends)** - Select **Disable Action Key** or **No Action**.

5. Click **Save**.

<!---## Next steps--->

<!---View integrated authorization systems](cloudknox-product-integrations)--->
<!---[Installation overview](cloudknox-installation.md)--->
<!---[Sign up and deploy FortSentry registration](cloudknox-fortsentry-registration.md)--->

Commit message:

update product name and add preview message

docs/permissions-management/cloudknox-integration-api.md, after:

---
title: Set and view configuration settings in CloudKnox Permissions Management
description: How to view the CloudKnox Permissions Management API integration settings and create service accounts and roles.
services: active-directory
author: Yvonne-deQ
manager: karenh444
ms.service: active-directory
ms.subservice: ciem
ms.workload: identity
ms.topic: how-to
ms.date: 02/02/2022
ms.author: v-ydequadros
---

# Set and view configuration settings

> [!IMPORTANT]
> CloudKnox Permissions Management (CloudKnox) is currently in PREVIEW.
> Some information relates to a prerelease product that may be substantially modified before it's released. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

This topic describes how to view configuration settings, create and delete a service account, and create a role in CloudKnox Permissions Management (CloudKnox).

## View configuration settings

The **Integrations** dashboard displays the authorization systems available to you.

1. To display the **Integrations** dashboard, select **User** (your initials) in the upper right of the screen, and then select **Integrations.**

    The **Integrations** dashboard displays a tile for each available authorization system.

1. Select an authorization system tile to view the following integration information:

    1. To find out more about the CloudKnox API, select **CloudKnox API**, and then select documentation.
        <!---Add Link: [documentation](https://developer.cloudknox.io/)--->

    1. To view information about service accounts, select **Integration**:
        - **Email**: Lists the email address of the user who created the integration.
        - **Created By**: Lists the first and last name of the user who created the integration.
        - **Created On**: Lists the date and time the integration was created.
        - **Recent Activity**: Lists the date and time the integration was last used, or notes if the integration was never used.
        - **Service Account ID**: Lists the service account ID.
        - **Access Key**: Lists the access key code.

    1. To view settings information, select **Settings**:
        - **Roles can create service account**: Lists the type of roles you can create.
        - **Access Key Rotation Policy**: Lists notifications and actions you can set. 
        - **Access Key Usage Policy**: Lists notifications and actions you can set.

## Create a service account

1. On the **Integrations** dashboard, select **User**, and then select **Integrations.**
2. Click **Create Service Account**. The following information is pre-populated on the page:
    - **API Endpoint**
    - **Service Account ID**
    - **Access Key**
    - **Secret Key**

3. To copy the codes, select the **Duplicate** icon next to the respective information.

   > [!NOTE]
   >  The codes are time sensitive and will regenerate after the box is closed.

4. To regenerate the codes, at the bottom of the column, select **Regenerate**.

## Delete a service account

1. On the **Integrations** dashboard, select **User**, and then select **Integrations.**

1. On the right of the email address, select **Delete Service Account**.
 
     On the **Validate OTP To Delete [Service Name] Integration** box, a message displays asking you to check your email for a code sent to the email address on file.

     If you don't receive the code, select **Resend OTP**.

1. In the **Enter OTP** box, enter the code from the email.

1. Click **Verify**.

## Create a role

1. On the **Integrations** dashboard, select **User**, and then select **Settings**.
2. Under **Roles can create service account**, select the role you want: 
    - **Super Admin**
    - **Viewer** 
    - **Controller**

3. In the **Access Key Rotation Policy** column, select options for the following:

    - **How often should the users rotate their access keys?**: Select **30 days**, **60 days**, **90 days**, or **Never**.
    - **Notification**: Enter a whole number in the blank space within **Notify "X" days before the selected period**, or select **Don't Notify**.
    - **Action (after the key rotation period ends)**: Select **Disable Action Key** or **No Action**.

4. In the **Access Key Usage Policy** column, select options for the following:

    - **How often should the users go without using their access keys?**: Select **30 days**, **60 days**, **90 days**, or **Never**.
    - **Notification**: Enter a whole number in the blank space within **Notify "X" days before the selected period**, or select **Don't Notify**.
    - **Action (after the key rotation period ends)**: Select **Disable Action Key** or **No Action**.

5. Click **Save**.

<!---## Next steps--->

<!---View integrated authorization systems](cloudknox-product-integrations)--->
<!---[Installation overview](cloudknox-installation.md)--->
<!---[Sign up and deploy FortSentry registration](cloudknox-fortsentry-registration.md)--->
