docs/permissions-management/cloudknox-report-create-custom-report.md, before:

---
title: Generate and view a custom report in Microsoft CloudKnox Permissions Management
description: How to generate and view a custom report in the Microsoft CloudKnox Permissions Management.
services: active-directory
author: Yvonne-deQ
manager: karenh444
ms.service: active-directory
ms.subservice: ciem
ms.workload: identity
ms.topic: how-to
ms.date: 01/31/2022
ms.author: v-ydequadros
---

# Generate and view a custom report

This article describes how to generate and view a custom report in Microsoft CloudKnox Permissions Management (CloudKnox).

## Generate a custom report 

1. In the CloudKnox home page, select the **Reports** tab, and then select the **Custom reports** subtab.
1. Select **New Custom Report**.
1. In the **New Custom Report** box, enter a name for your report.
1. From the **Report Based on** list, make a selection from the list of reports.
    1. To view which authorization systems the report applies to, hover over each report option.
    1. To view a description of the report, select a report.
1. Select **Next**.
1. In the **MyReport** box, select the **Authorization system** you want: Amazon Web Services (**AWS**), Microsoft Azure (**Azure**), or Google Cloud Platform (**GCP**).

1. To add specific accounts, select the **List** subtab, and then select **All** or the account names.
1. To add specific folders, select the **Folders** subtab, and then select **All** or the folder names.

1. Select the **Report Format** subtab and select the format for your report: comma-separated values (**CSV**) file, portable document format (**PDF**), or Microsoft Excel Open XML Spreadsheet (**XLSX**) file.
1. Select the **Schedule** tab and choose a frequency from **None** up to **Monthly**.

	- For **Hourly** and **Daily** options, set the start date by choosing from the **Calendar** dropdown, and can input a specific time of the day they want to receive the report. 

    In addition to date and time, the **Weekly** and **Biweekly** provide options for you to select on which day(s)of the week the report should repeat.

9. Select **Save**.

      The following message displays across the top of the screen in green if the download is successful: **Report has been created**.
The report name appears in the **Reports** table.


## View a custom report 

1. To view a list of custom reports, select **Reports**, and then select the **Custom Reports** tab.

    The **Custom Reports** tab displays the following options in the **Reports** table:

    - **Report Name** - The name of the report.
    - **Category** - The type of report: **Permission** or **Compliance**.
    - **Authorization System** - The authorization system in which you can view the report: Amazon Web Services (AWS), Microsoft Azure (Azure), and Google Cloud Platform (GCP).
    - **Format** - The format of the report.

2. To view a report, from the **Report Name** column, select the report you want.
3. To download a report, from the ellipses **(...)** menu, select **Download**.
4. To refresh the list of reports, select **Reload**.

## Search for a custom report 

1. On the **Custom Reports** tab, select **Search**.
2. In the **Search** box, enter the name of the report you want.

    The **Custom Reports** tab displays a list of reports that match your search criteria. 
3. Select the report you want.
4. To download a report, from the ellipses **(...)** menu, select **Download**.
5. To refresh the list of reports, select **Reload**.


## Modify a saved or scheduled custom report

1. Hover over the report name on the **Custom Reports** tab.

	- To rename the report. select the **Pencil** icon and enter a new name.

	- To update the report settings, select the **Gear** icon.

		 Select this option to return to the Report interface as described in creating a new custom report. You can make any necessary updates and save the changes.

	- To download a copy of the report, select the **Down arrow** icon.
2. To perform actions to the report and select from the following options, select the ellipses (**...**) icon:

	 Reports not created by the current user are listed as **Duplicate**.

	- **Download** - Downloads a copy of the report.

	- **Report Settings** - Displays the settings on the report, including scheduling, authorization system type, and so on.

	- **Duplicate** - Creates a duplicate of the report called **"Copy of XXX"**

		 After selecting **Duplicate**, a pop-up box appears asking if the user is sure they want to create a duplicate. Select **Confirm**.

         **Report generated successfully** appears across the top of the screen in green if successfully duplicated.

	- **API Settings** - Download the report using API.

		 When this option is selected, **API Settings** window opens and displays **Report ID** and **Secret Key**. Select **Generate New Key**.

	- **Delete** - Select this option to delete the report.

		 After selecting **Delete**, a pop-up box appears asking if the user is sure they want to delete the report. Select **Confirm**. 

        **Report is deleted successfully** appears across the top of the screen in green if successfully deleted.

	- **Unsubscribe** - Unsubscribe the user from receiving scheduled reports and notifications.

		 This option is only available after a report has been scheduled.


## Next steps

- For a brief overview of available system reports, see [View an overview of available system report types](cloudknox-product-reports.md).
- For a detailed overview of available system reports, see [View a list and description of system reports](cloudknox-all-reports.md).
- For information about how to generate and view a system report, see [Generate and view a system report](cloudknox-report-view-system-report.md).
- For information about how to create and view the Permissions analytics report, see [Generate and download the Permissions analytics report](cloudknox-product-permissions-analytics-reports.md).

Commit message:

update product name and add preview message

docs/permissions-management/cloudknox-report-create-custom-report.md, after:

---
title: Generate and view a custom report in CloudKnox Permissions Management
description: How to generate and view a custom report in the CloudKnox Permissions Management.
services: active-directory
author: Yvonne-deQ
manager: karenh444
ms.service: active-directory
ms.subservice: ciem
ms.workload: identity
ms.topic: how-to
ms.date: 02/02/2022
ms.author: v-ydequadros
---

# Generate and view a custom report

> [!IMPORTANT]
> CloudKnox Permissions Management (CloudKnox) is currently in PREVIEW.
> Some information relates to a prerelease product that may be substantially modified before it's released. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

This article describes how to generate and view a custom report in CloudKnox Permissions Management (CloudKnox).

## Generate a custom report 

1. In the CloudKnox home page, select the **Reports** tab, and then select the **Custom reports** subtab.
1. Select **New Custom Report**.
1. In the **New Custom Report** box, enter a name for your report.
1. From the **Report Based on** list, make a selection from the list of reports.
    1. To view which authorization systems the report applies to, hover over each report option.
    1. To view a description of the report, select a report.
1. Select **Next**.
1. In the **MyReport** box, select the **Authorization system** you want: Amazon Web Services (**AWS**), Microsoft Azure (**Azure**), or Google Cloud Platform (**GCP**).

1. To add specific accounts, select the **List** subtab, and then select **All** or the account names.
1. To add specific folders, select the **Folders** subtab, and then select **All** or the folder names.

1. Select the **Report Format** subtab and select the format for your report: comma-separated values (**CSV**) file, portable document format (**PDF**), or Microsoft Excel Open XML Spreadsheet (**XLSX**) file.
1. Select the **Schedule** tab and choose a frequency from **None** up to **Monthly**.

	- For **Hourly** and **Daily** options, set the start date by choosing from the **Calendar** dropdown, and can input a specific time of the day they want to receive the report. 

    In addition to date and time, the **Weekly** and **Biweekly** provide options for you to select on which day(s)of the week the report should repeat.

9. Select **Save**.

      The following message displays across the top of the screen in green if the download is successful: **Report has been created**.
The report name appears in the **Reports** table.


## View a custom report 

1. To view a list of custom reports, select **Reports**, and then select the **Custom Reports** tab.

    The **Custom Reports** tab displays the following options in the **Reports** table:

    - **Report Name**: The name of the report.
    - **Category**: The type of report: **Permission** or **Compliance**.
    - **Authorization System**: The authorization system in which you can view the report: Amazon Web Services (AWS), Microsoft Azure (Azure), and Google Cloud Platform (GCP).
    - **Format**: The format of the report.

2. To view a report, from the **Report Name** column, select the report you want.
3. To download a report, from the ellipses **(...)** menu, select **Download**.
4. To refresh the list of reports, select **Reload**.

## Search for a custom report 

1. On the **Custom Reports** tab, select **Search**.
2. In the **Search** box, enter the name of the report you want.

    The **Custom Reports** tab displays a list of reports that match your search criteria. 
3. Select the report you want.
4. To download a report, from the ellipses **(...)** menu, select **Download**.
5. To refresh the list of reports, select **Reload**.


## Modify a saved or scheduled custom report

1. Hover over the report name on the **Custom Reports** tab.

	- To rename the report. select the **Pencil** icon and enter a new name.

	- To update the report settings, select the **Gear** icon.

		 Select this option to return to the Report interface as described in creating a new custom report. You can make any necessary updates and save the changes.

	- To download a copy of the report, select the **Down arrow** icon.
2. To perform actions to the report and select from the following options, select the ellipses (**...**) icon:

	 Reports not created by the current user are listed as **Duplicate**.

	- **Download**: Downloads a copy of the report.

	- **Report Settings**: Displays the settings on the report, including scheduling, authorization system type, and so on.

	- **Duplicate**: Creates a duplicate of the report called **"Copy of XXX"**

		 After selecting **Duplicate**, a pop-up box appears asking if the user is sure they want to create a duplicate. Select **Confirm**.

         **Report generated successfully** appears across the top of the screen in green if successfully duplicated.

	- **API Settings**: Download the report using API.

		 When this option is selected, **API Settings** window opens and displays **Report ID** and **Secret Key**. Select **Generate New Key**.

	- **Delete**: Select this option to delete the report.

		 After selecting **Delete**, a pop-up box appears asking if the user is sure they want to delete the report. Select **Confirm**. 

        **Report is deleted successfully** appears across the top of the screen in green if successfully deleted.

	- **Unsubscribe**: Unsubscribe the user from receiving scheduled reports and notifications.

		 This option is only available after a report has been scheduled.


## Next steps

- For a brief overview of available system reports, see [View an overview of available system report types](cloudknox-product-reports.md).
- For a detailed overview of available system reports, see [View a list and description of system reports](cloudknox-all-reports.md).
- For information about how to generate and view a system report, see [Generate and view a system report](cloudknox-report-view-system-report.md).
- For information about how to create and view the Permissions analytics report, see [Generate and download the Permissions analytics report](cloudknox-product-permissions-analytics-reports.md).
