docs/permissions-management/cloudknox-training-videos.md, before:

---
title: CloudKnox Permissions Management training videos
description: CloudKnox Permissions Management training videos.
services: active-directory
author: Yvonne-deQ
manager: karenh444
ms.service: active-directory
ms.subservice: ciem
ms.workload: identity
ms.topic: how-to
ms.date: 02/24/2022
ms.author: v-ydequadros
---

# CloudKnox Permissions Management training videos

To view step-by-step training videos on how to use CloudKnox Permissions Management (CloudKnox) features, select a link below.

## Enable CloudKnox in your Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) tenant

To view a video on how to enable CloudKnox in your Azure AD tenant, select
[Enable CloudKnox in your Azure AD tenant](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-fkfeZyevoo).

<!---## Privilege on demand (POD) work flows

- View a step-by-step video on the [privilege on demand (POD) work flow from the Just Enough Permissions (JEP) Controller](https://vimeo.com/461508166/3d88107f41).

## Usage analytics

- View a step-by-step video on [usage analytics](https://vimeo.com/461509556/b7bb392b83).

## Just Enough Permissions (JEP) roles and policies

- View a step-by-step video on [how to use and interpret data on the Role/Policy tab under the JEP Controller](https://vimeo.com/461510754/3dd31d85b7).

## Attach or detach permissions for users, roles, and resources

- View a step-by-step video on [how to attach and detach permissions for users, roles, and resources](https://vimeo.com/461512552/6f6a06e6c1).

## Audit trails

- View a step-by-step video on [how to use the audit trail](https://vimeo.com/461513290/b431a38b6c).

## Alert triggers

- View a step-by-step video on [how to create an alert trigger](https://vimeo.com/461881849/019c843cc6).

## Group permissions

- View a step-by-step video on [how to create group-based permissions](https://vimeo.com/462797947/d041de9157).--->


<!---## Next steps--->

Commit message:

add info on AWS video

docs/permissions-management/cloudknox-training-videos.md, after:

---
title: CloudKnox Permissions Management training videos
description: CloudKnox Permissions Management training videos.
services: active-directory
author: Yvonne-deQ
manager: karenh444
ms.service: active-directory
ms.subservice: ciem
ms.workload: identity
ms.topic: how-to
ms.date: 03/09/2022
ms.author: v-ydequadros
---

# CloudKnox Permissions Management training videos

To view step-by-step training videos on how to use CloudKnox Permissions Management (CloudKnox) features, select a link below.

## Enable CloudKnox in your Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) tenant

To view a video on how to enable CloudKnox in your Azure AD tenant, select
[Enable CloudKnox in your Azure AD tenant](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-fkfeZyevoo).

## Configure and onboard Amazon Web Services (AWS) accounts

To view a video on how to configure and onboard Amazon Web Services (AWS) accounts in CloudKnox Permissions Management, select [Configure and onboard AWS accounts](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R6K21wiWYmE).


<!---## Privilege on demand (POD) work flows

- View a step-by-step video on the [privilege on demand (POD) work flow from the Just Enough Permissions (JEP) Controller](https://vimeo.com/461508166/3d88107f41).

## Usage analytics

- View a step-by-step video on [usage analytics](https://vimeo.com/461509556/b7bb392b83).

## Just Enough Permissions (JEP) roles and policies

- View a step-by-step video on [how to use and interpret data on the Role/Policy tab under the JEP Controller](https://vimeo.com/461510754/3dd31d85b7).

## Attach or detach permissions for users, roles, and resources

- View a step-by-step video on [how to attach and detach permissions for users, roles, and resources](https://vimeo.com/461512552/6f6a06e6c1).

## Audit trails

- View a step-by-step video on [how to use the audit trail](https://vimeo.com/461513290/b431a38b6c).

## Alert triggers

- View a step-by-step video on [how to create an alert trigger](https://vimeo.com/461881849/019c843cc6).

## Group permissions

- View a step-by-step video on [how to create group-based permissions](https://vimeo.com/462797947/d041de9157).--->


<!---## Next steps--->
