docs/permissions-management/cloudknox-howto-delete-role-policy.md, before:

---
title: Delete a role/policy in the JEP Controller in Microsoft CloudKnox Permissions Management 
description: How to delete a role/policy in the Just Enough Permissions (JEP) Controller.
services: active-directory
author: Yvonne-deQ
manager: karenh444
ms.service: active-directory
ms.subservice: ciem
ms.workload: identity
ms.topic: how-to
ms.date: 02/01/2022
ms.author: v-ydequadros
---

# Delete a role/policy in the JEP Controller

This article describes how you can use the JEP Controller in Microsoft CloudKnox Permissions Management to delete roles/policies for the Amazon Web Services (AWS), Microsoft Azure, or Google Cloud Platform (GCP) authorization systems. 

> [!NOTE]
> To view the **JEP Controller** tab, you must have **Viewer**, **Controller**, or **Administrator** permissions. To make changes on this tab, you must have **Controller** or **Administrator** permissions. If you don’t have these permissions, contact your system administrator.

> [!NOTE]
> Microsoft Azure uses the term *role* for what other Cloud providers call *policy*. CloudKnox automatically makes this terminology change when you select the authorization system type. In the user documentation, we use *role/policy* to refer to both.

## Delete a role/policy

1. On the CloudKnox home page, select the **JEP Controller** tab, and then select the **Role/Policies** tab.
1. Select the role/policy you want to delete, and from the **Actions** column, select **Delete**.

    You can only delete a role/policy if it isn't assigned to an identity. 

    You can't delete system roles/policies.

1. On the **Preview** screen, review the role/policy information to make sure you want to delete it, and then select **Submit**.
1. Refresh the **Role/Policies** tab to see the role/policy you modified.

## Next steps

- For information on how to view roles/policies, see [View information about roles/policies in the JEP Controller](cloudknox-howto-view-role-policy.md).
- For information on how to create roles/policies, see [Create a role/policy in the JEP Controller](cloudknox-howto-create-role-policy.md).
- For information on how to clone roles/policies, see [Clone a role/policy in the JEP Controller](cloudknox-howto-clone-role-policy.md).
- For information on how to modify roles/policies, see [Modify a role/policy in the JEP Controller](cloudknox-howto-modify-role-policy.md).

Commit message:

update product name and add preview message

docs/permissions-management/cloudknox-howto-delete-role-policy.md, after:

---
title: Delete a role/policy in the JEP Controller in CloudKnox Permissions Management 
description: How to delete a role/policy in the Just Enough Permissions (JEP) Controller.
services: active-directory
author: Yvonne-deQ
manager: karenh444
ms.service: active-directory
ms.subservice: ciem
ms.workload: identity
ms.topic: how-to
ms.date: 02/02/2022
ms.author: v-ydequadros
---

# Delete a role/policy in the JEP Controller

> [!IMPORTANT]
> CloudKnox Permissions Management (CloudKnox) is currently in PREVIEW.
> Some information relates to a prerelease product that may be substantially modified before it's released. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

This article describes how you can use the JEP Controller in CloudKnox Permissions Management to delete roles/policies for the Amazon Web Services (AWS), Microsoft Azure, or Google Cloud Platform (GCP) authorization systems. 

> [!NOTE]
> To view the **JEP Controller** tab, you must have **Viewer**, **Controller**, or **Administrator** permissions. To make changes on this tab, you must have **Controller** or **Administrator** permissions. If you don’t have these permissions, contact your system administrator.

> [!NOTE]
> Microsoft Azure uses the term *role* for what other Cloud providers call *policy*. CloudKnox automatically makes this terminology change when you select the authorization system type. In the user documentation, we use *role/policy* to refer to both.

## Delete a role/policy

1. On the CloudKnox home page, select the **JEP Controller** tab, and then select the **Role/Policies** tab.
1. Select the role/policy you want to delete, and from the **Actions** column, select **Delete**.

    You can only delete a role/policy if it isn't assigned to an identity. 

    You can't delete system roles/policies.

1. On the **Preview** screen, review the role/policy information to make sure you want to delete it, and then select **Submit**.
1. Refresh the **Role/Policies** tab to see the role/policy you modified.

## Next steps

- For information on how to view roles/policies, see [View information about roles/policies in the JEP Controller](cloudknox-howto-view-role-policy.md).
- For information on how to create roles/policies, see [Create a role/policy in the JEP Controller](cloudknox-howto-create-role-policy.md).
- For information on how to clone roles/policies, see [Clone a role/policy in the JEP Controller](cloudknox-howto-clone-role-policy.md).
- For information on how to modify roles/policies, see [Modify a role/policy in the JEP Controller](cloudknox-howto-modify-role-policy.md).
