docs/permissions-management/cloudknox-ui-tasks.md, before:

---
title: Microsoft CloudKnox Permissions Management - View information about active and completed activities 
description: How to view information about active and completed tasks in the Activities pane in Microsoft CloudKnox Permissions Management.
services: active-directory
author: Yvonne-deQ
manager: karenh444
ms.service: active-directory
ms.subservice: ciem
ms.workload: identity
ms.topic: overview
ms.date: 01/26/2022
ms.author: v-ydequadros
---

# View information about active and completed activities

This article describes how to use to view task information the **Activities** pane in Microsoft CloudKnox Permissions Management (CloudKnox).

**To display the activities pane:**

- In the upper right of the CloudKnox dashboard, select **Activities** (the timer icon).

    The **Activities** pane has two tabs:
    - **Active** - A list of active tasks.

         If there are no active tasks, the following message displays: **There are no active tasks**.
    - **Completed** - A list of completed tasks.

         If there are no completed activities, the following message displays: **There are no recently completed tasks**.




<!---## Next steps--->

Commit message:

update product name and add preview message

docs/permissions-management/cloudknox-ui-tasks.md, after:

---
title: View information about active and completed activities in CloudKnox Permissions Management
description: How to view information about active and completed tasks in the Activities pane in CloudKnox Permissions Management.
services: active-directory
author: Yvonne-deQ
manager: karenh444
ms.service: active-directory
ms.subservice: ciem
ms.workload: identity
ms.topic: overview
ms.date: 02/02/2022
ms.author: v-ydequadros
---

# View information about active and completed activities

> [!IMPORTANT]
> CloudKnox Permissions Management (CloudKnox) is currently in PREVIEW.
> Some information relates to a prerelease product that may be substantially modified before it's released. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

This article describes how to use to view task information the **Activities** pane in CloudKnox Permissions Management (CloudKnox).

**To display the activities pane:**

- In the upper right of the CloudKnox dashboard, select **Activities** (the timer icon).

    The **Activities** pane has two tabs:
    - **Active**: A list of active tasks.

         If there are no active tasks, the following message displays: **There are no active tasks**.
    - **Completed**: A list of completed tasks.

         If there are no completed activities, the following message displays: **There are no recently completed tasks**.




<!---## Next steps--->
