docs/permissions-management/cloudknox-howto-create-role-policy.md, before:

---
title: Create a role/policy in the JEP Controller in Microsoft CloudKnox Permissions Management 
description: How to create a role/policy in the Just Enough Permissions (JEP) Controller.
services: active-directory
author: Yvonne-deQ
manager: karenh444
ms.service: active-directory
ms.subservice: ciem
ms.workload: identity
ms.topic: how-to
ms.date: 02/01/2022
ms.author: v-ydequadros
---

# Create a role/policy in the JEP Controller

This article describes how you can use the JEP Controller in Microsoft CloudKnox Permissions Management to create roles/policies for the Amazon Web Services (AWS), Microsoft Azure, or Google Cloud Platform (GCP) authorization systems. 

> [!NOTE]
> To view the **JEP Controller** tab, you must have **Viewer**, **Controller**, or **Administrator** permissions. To make changes on this tab, you must have **Controller** or **Administrator** permissions. If you don’t have these permissions, contact your system administrator.

> [!NOTE]
> Microsoft Azure uses the term *role* for what other Cloud providers call *policy*. CloudKnox automatically makes this terminology change when you select the authorization system type. In the user documentation, we use *role/policy* to refer to both.

## Create a role/policy

1. On the CloudKnox home page, select the **JEP Controller** tab, and then select the **Role/Policies** tab.

1. Use the drop-down lists to select the **Authorization System Type** and **Authorization System**.
1. Select **Create Role/Policy**.

    The **Create role/Policy** wizard opens.
1. The **Authorization System Type** and **Authorization System** are pre-populated from your previous settings.
    - To change the settings, select the box and make a selection from the dropdown. 

1. Under **How Would You Like to Create the Policy?**, select the required option::

    - **Activity of user(s)**: Allows you to create a role/policy based on a user's activity.
    - **Activity of group(s)**: Allows you to create a role/policy based on the aggregated activity of all the users belonging to the group(s).
    - **Activity of resource(s)**: Allows you to create a role/policy based on the activity of a resource, for example, an EC2 instance.
    - **Activity of role/policy**: Allows you to create a role/policy based on the aggregated activity of all the users that assumed the role.
    - **Activity of Lambda function**: Allows you to create a new polrole/policy based on the Lambda function.
    - **From existing role/policy**: Allows you to create a new role/policy based on an existing role/policy.
    - **New role/policy**: Allows you to create a new role/policy from scratch.

1. In **Tasks performed in the last**, select the duration: **90 days**, **60 days**, **30 days**, **7 days**, or **1 day**.
1. Depending on your preference, select or deselect **Include Access Advisor data.**
1. Complete the required data depending on the type of policy you want to create, and then select **Next**.

    CloudKnox displays a **Statement** of **Available tasks** and **Selected tasks**.  
1. To create a more generalized role/policy, select tasks from the **Available tasks** list.
    - To add a category of tasks, select a category.
    - To add individual tasks from a category, select the plus sign next to the category name, and then select individual tasks.

    The tasks you select appear the **Selected tasks** list.
1. To add another statement to your role/policy, select **Add a statement**, and then add a category of tasks or individual tasks as described in Step 11.
1. In **Resources**, select **All Resources**, **Specific Resources**, or **No Resources**.

    If you select **Specific Resources**, a list of available resources appears.
1. In **Request Conditions**, select **JSON** or **Script**.
1. In **Effect**, select **Allow** or **Deny**, and then select **Next**.
1. Review the script to confirm it's what you want.
1. If your controller isn't enabled, select **Download JSON** or **Download Script** to download the code and run it yourself.

    If your controller is enabled, skip this step.
1. Select **Submit**.
1. The **CloudKnox tasks** pane appears on the right.

    The **Active** tab displays a list of the roles/policies CloudKnox is currently processing.

    The **Completed** tab displays a list of the roles/policies CloudKnox has completed.
1. Refresh the **Role/Policies** tab to see the role/policy you created.



## Next steps

- For information on how to view roles/policies, see [View information about roles/policies in the JEP Controller](cloudknox-howto-view-role-policy.md).
- For information on how to clone roles/policies, see [Clone a role/policy in the JEP Controller](cloudknox-howto-clone-role-policy.md).
- For information on how to modify roles/policies, see [Modify a role/policy in the JEP Controller](cloudknox-howto-modify-role-policy.md).
- For information on how to delete roles/policies, see [Delete a role/policy in the JEP Controller](cloudknox-howto-delete-role-policy.md).

Commit message:

update product name and add preview message

docs/permissions-management/cloudknox-howto-create-role-policy.md, after:

---
title: Create a role/policy in the JEP Controller in CloudKnox Permissions Management 
description: How to create a role/policy in the Just Enough Permissions (JEP) Controller.
services: active-directory
author: Yvonne-deQ
manager: karenh444
ms.service: active-directory
ms.subservice: ciem
ms.workload: identity
ms.topic: how-to
ms.date: 02/02/2022
ms.author: v-ydequadros
---

# Create a role/policy in the JEP Controller

> [!IMPORTANT]
> CloudKnox Permissions Management (CloudKnox) is currently in PREVIEW.
> Some information relates to a prerelease product that may be substantially modified before it's released. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

This article describes how you can use the JEP Controller in CloudKnox Permissions Management to create roles/policies for the Amazon Web Services (AWS), Microsoft Azure, or Google Cloud Platform (GCP) authorization systems. 

> [!NOTE]
> To view the **JEP Controller** tab, you must have **Viewer**, **Controller**, or **Administrator** permissions. To make changes on this tab, you must have **Controller** or **Administrator** permissions. If you don’t have these permissions, contact your system administrator.

> [!NOTE]
> Microsoft Azure uses the term *role* for what other Cloud providers call *policy*. CloudKnox automatically makes this terminology change when you select the authorization system type. In the user documentation, we use *role/policy* to refer to both.

## Create a role/policy

1. On the CloudKnox home page, select the **JEP Controller** tab, and then select the **Role/Policies** tab.

1. Use the drop-down lists to select the **Authorization System Type** and **Authorization System**.
1. Select **Create Role/Policy**.

    The **Create role/Policy** wizard opens.
1. The **Authorization System Type** and **Authorization System** are pre-populated from your previous settings.
    - To change the settings, select the box and make a selection from the dropdown. 

1. Under **How Would You Like to Create the Policy?**, select the required option::

    - **Activity of user(s)**: Allows you to create a role/policy based on a user's activity.
    - **Activity of group(s)**: Allows you to create a role/policy based on the aggregated activity of all the users belonging to the group(s).
    - **Activity of resource(s)**: Allows you to create a role/policy based on the activity of a resource, for example, an EC2 instance.
    - **Activity of role/policy**: Allows you to create a role/policy based on the aggregated activity of all the users that assumed the role.
    - **Activity of Lambda function**: Allows you to create a new polrole/policy based on the Lambda function.
    - **From existing role/policy**: Allows you to create a new role/policy based on an existing role/policy.
    - **New role/policy**: Allows you to create a new role/policy from scratch.

1. In **Tasks performed in the last**, select the duration: **90 days**, **60 days**, **30 days**, **7 days**, or **1 day**.
1. Depending on your preference, select or deselect **Include Access Advisor data.**
1. Complete the required data depending on the type of policy you want to create, and then select **Next**.

    CloudKnox displays a **Statement** of **Available tasks** and **Selected tasks**.  
1. To create a more generalized role/policy, select tasks from the **Available tasks** list.
    - To add a category of tasks, select a category.
    - To add individual tasks from a category, select the plus sign next to the category name, and then select individual tasks.

    The tasks you select appear the **Selected tasks** list.
1. To add another statement to your role/policy, select **Add a statement**, and then add a category of tasks or individual tasks as described in Step 11.
1. In **Resources**, select **All Resources**, **Specific Resources**, or **No Resources**.

    If you select **Specific Resources**, a list of available resources appears.
1. In **Request Conditions**, select **JSON** or **Script**.
1. In **Effect**, select **Allow** or **Deny**, and then select **Next**.
1. Review the script to confirm it's what you want.
1. If your controller isn't enabled, select **Download JSON** or **Download Script** to download the code and run it yourself.

    If your controller is enabled, skip this step.
1. Select **Submit**.
1. The **CloudKnox tasks** pane appears on the right.

    The **Active** tab displays a list of the roles/policies CloudKnox is currently processing.

    The **Completed** tab displays a list of the roles/policies CloudKnox has completed.
1. Refresh the **Role/Policies** tab to see the role/policy you created.



## Next steps

- For information on how to view roles/policies, see [View information about roles/policies in the JEP Controller](cloudknox-howto-view-role-policy.md).
- For information on how to clone roles/policies, see [Clone a role/policy in the JEP Controller](cloudknox-howto-clone-role-policy.md).
- For information on how to modify roles/policies, see [Modify a role/policy in the JEP Controller](cloudknox-howto-modify-role-policy.md).
- For information on how to delete roles/policies, see [Delete a role/policy in the JEP Controller](cloudknox-howto-delete-role-policy.md).
