docs/permissions-management/cloudknox-howto-create-alert-trigger.md, before:

---
title: Microsoft CloudKnox Permissions Management - Create an alert trigger
description: How to create an alert trigger in Microsoft CloudKnox Permissions Management.
services: active-directory
author: Yvonne-deQ
manager: karenh444
ms.service: active-directory
ms.subservice: ciem
ms.workload: identity
ms.topic: how-to
ms.date: 01/17/2022
ms.author: v-ydequadros
---

# Create an alert trigger

This topic describes how you can create an alert trigger in Microsoft CloudKnox Permissions Management (CloudKnox).

1. To open the **Alerts** tab, select **Alert** (the bell icon) in the top-right corner of the page.
2. Select the **Alert Triggers** tab.
3. Select **Create Alert Trigger**.
4. In the **Create Alert Trigger** box, enter a name for your alert.
5. In **Authorization System Type**, select your authorization system.
6. In **Authorization System**, select **Is** or **In**, and then select one or more accounts.
7. Select **Add**.
8. In **Select a Type**, select the type of alert you want to set. Then enter your criteria.
9. To add another parameter, select the plus **(+)** sign.

    To delete a parameter, select the minus **(-)** sign.
10. To save your alert trigger settings, select **Save**.



<!---## Next steps--->

Commit message:

update account settings and alerts content

docs/permissions-management/cloudknox-howto-create-alert-trigger.md, after:

---
title: Microsoft CloudKnox Permissions Management - Create an alert trigger
description: How to create an alert trigger in Microsoft CloudKnox Permissions Management.
services: active-directory
author: Yvonne-deQ
manager: karenh444
ms.service: active-directory
ms.subservice: ciem
ms.workload: identity
ms.topic: how-to
ms.date: 02/02/2022
ms.author: v-ydequadros
---

# Create an alert trigger

This topic describes how you can create an alert trigger in Microsoft CloudKnox Permissions Management (CloudKnox).

1. To open the **Alerts** tab, select **Alert** (the bell icon) in the top-right corner of the page.
2. Select the **Alert Triggers** tab.
3. Select **Create Alert Trigger**.
4. In the **Create Alert Trigger** box, enter a name for your alert.
5. In **Authorization System Type**, select your authorization system.
6. In **Authorization System**, select **Is** or **In**, and then select one or more accounts.
7. Select **Add**.
8. In **Select a Type**, select the type of alert you want to set. Then enter your criteria.
9. To add another parameter, select the plus **(+)** sign.

    To delete a parameter, select the minus **(-)** sign.
10. To save your alert trigger settings, select **Save**.



## Next steps


- For an overview on activity alerts and triggers, see [View information about activity alerts and triggers](cloudknox-ui-triggers.md).
- For information on now to Create and save product alerts, see [Create and save product alerts](cloudknox-product-alerts.md).
