docs/permissions-management/cloudknox-usage-analytics-home.md, before:

---
title: Microsoft CloudKnox Permissions Management - View analytic information with the Usage analytics dashboard
description: How to use the Usage analytics dashboard in Microsoft CloudKnox Permissions Management to view details about users, groups, active resources, active tasks, access keys, and serverless functions.
services: active-directory
author: Yvonne-deQ
manager: karenh444
ms.service: active-directory
ms.subservice: ciem
ms.workload: identity
ms.topic: how-to
ms.date: 01/29/2022
ms.author: v-ydequadros
---

# View analytic information with the Usage analytics dashboard

The **Usage analytics** dashboard in Microsoft CloudKnox Permissions Management (CloudKnox) displays detailed information about: 

- **Users**: Tracks assigned permissions and usage by users. For more information, see [View analytic information about users](cloudknox-usage-analytics-users.md).
    
- **Groups**: Tracks assigned permissions and usage of the group and the group members.  For more information, see [View analytic information about groups](cloudknox-usage-analytics-groups.md).

- **Active Resources**: Tracks resources that have been used in the last 90 days.  For more information, see [View analytic information about active resources](cloudknox-usage-analytics-active-resources.md).

- **Active Tasks**: Tracks tasks that have been performed in the last 90 days.  For more information, see [View analytic information about active tasks](cloudknox-usage-analytics-active-tasks.md).

- **Access Keys**: Tracks the permission usage of access keys for a given user.  For more information, see [View analytic information about access keys](cloudknox-usage-analytics-access-keys.md).

- **Serverless Functions**: Tracks assigned permissions and usage of the serverless functions.  For more information, see [View analytic information about serverless functions](cloudknox-usage-analytics-serverless-functions.md).

You can use this information to make decisions about granting permissions and reducing risk on unused permissions.


## Next steps

- For information about roles and identities that can access account information from external accounts, see [View roles and identities that can access account information from external accounts](cloudknox-product-account-explorer.md).

Commit message:

update product name and add preview message

docs/permissions-management/cloudknox-usage-analytics-home.md, after:

---
title: View analytic information with the Usage analytics dashboard in CloudKnox Permissions Management
description: How to use the Usage analytics dashboard in CloudKnox Permissions Management to view details about users, groups, active resources, active tasks, access keys, and serverless functions.
services: active-directory
author: Yvonne-deQ
manager: karenh444
ms.service: active-directory
ms.subservice: ciem
ms.workload: identity
ms.topic: how-to
ms.date: 02/02/2022
ms.author: v-ydequadros
---

# View analytic information with the Usage analytics dashboard

> [!IMPORTANT]
> CloudKnox Permissions Management (CloudKnox) is currently in PREVIEW.
> Some information relates to a prerelease product that may be substantially modified before it's released. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

The **Usage analytics**: dashboard in CloudKnox Permissions Management (CloudKnox) displays detailed information about: 

- **Users**: Tracks assigned permissions and usage by users. For more information, see [View analytic information about users](cloudknox-usage-analytics-users.md).
    
- **Groups**: Tracks assigned permissions and usage of the group and the group members.  For more information, see [View analytic information about groups](cloudknox-usage-analytics-groups.md).

- **Active Resources**: Tracks resources that have been used in the last 90 days.  For more information, see [View analytic information about active resources](cloudknox-usage-analytics-active-resources.md).

- **Active Tasks**: Tracks tasks that have been performed in the last 90 days.  For more information, see [View analytic information about active tasks](cloudknox-usage-analytics-active-tasks.md).

- **Access Keys**: Tracks the permission usage of access keys for a given user.  For more information, see [View analytic information about access keys](cloudknox-usage-analytics-access-keys.md).

- **Serverless Functions**: Tracks assigned permissions and usage of the serverless functions.  For more information, see [View analytic information about serverless functions](cloudknox-usage-analytics-serverless-functions.md).

You can use this information to make decisions about granting permissions and reducing risk on unused permissions.


## Next steps

- For information about roles and identities that can access account information from external accounts, see [View roles and identities that can access account information from external accounts](cloudknox-product-account-explorer.md).
