docs/permissions-management/cloudknox-product-account-settings.md, before:

---
title: CloudKnox Permissions Management - Set personal and organization information
description: How to set personal and organization information in the Account settings dashboard in CloudKnox Permissions Management.
services: active-directory
manager: karenh444
ms.service: active-directory
ms.topic: overview
author: Yvonne-deQ
ms.date: 02/02/2022
ms.author: v-ydequadros
---

# Set personal and organization information

The **Account settings** dashboard in CloudKnox Permissions Management (CloudKnox) allows you to set personal information, passwords, and account preferences.

## Set personal information

1. In the CloudKnox home page, select the down arrow to the right of the **User** (your initials) menu, and then select **Account settings**.
1. On the **Account settings** dashboard, under **Personal information**, select **Edit**.

1. In the **First name** and **Last name** boxes, enter the user's name. 

     The **Email** field can't be modified because the account is linked to the email address that was used to register on CloudKnox.

## Set current organization information

1. In the CloudKnox home page, select the down arrow to the right of the **User** (your initials) menu, and then select **Account settings**.
1. On the **Account settings** dashboard, under **Current organization information**, select **Edit**.

1. In the **Name** box, enter the name of the organization. 

     The organization name appears in the CloudKnox title bar.

1. In the **Tenant ID** box, enter the tenant identification number.

1. In **User session timeout (min)** box, enter the number of minutes before you want a user session to time out.

## Next steps

- For information about how to manage user information, see [Manage users with the User management dashboard](cloudknox-ui-user-management.md).

Commit message:

update product name and add preview message

docs/permissions-management/cloudknox-product-account-settings.md, after:

---
title: CloudKnox Permissions Management - Set personal and organization information
description: How to set personal and organization information in the Account settings dashboard in CloudKnox Permissions Management.
services: active-directory
manager: karenh444
ms.service: active-directory
ms.topic: overview
author: Yvonne-deQ
ms.date: 02/02/2022
ms.author: v-ydequadros
---

# Set personal and organization information

> [!IMPORTANT]
> CloudKnox Permissions Management (CloudKnox) is currently in PREVIEW.
> Some information relates to a prerelease product that may be substantially modified before it's released. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

The **Account settings** dashboard in CloudKnox Permissions Management (CloudKnox) allows you to set personal information, passwords, and account preferences.

## Set personal information

1. In the CloudKnox home page, select the down arrow to the right of the **User** (your initials) menu, and then select **Account settings**.
1. On the **Account settings** dashboard, under **Personal information**, select **Edit**.

1. In the **First name** and **Last name** boxes, enter the user's name. 

     The **Email** field can't be modified because the account is linked to the email address that was used to register on CloudKnox.

## Set current organization information

1. In the CloudKnox home page, select the down arrow to the right of the **User** (your initials) menu, and then select **Account settings**.
1. On the **Account settings** dashboard, under **Current organization information**, select **Edit**.

1. In the **Name** box, enter the name of the organization. 

     The organization name appears in the CloudKnox title bar.

1. In the **Tenant ID** box, enter the tenant identification number.

1. In **User session timeout (min)** box, enter the number of minutes before you want a user session to time out.

## Next steps

- For information about how to manage user information, see [Manage users with the User management dashboard](cloudknox-ui-user-management.md).
