docs/permissions-management/cloudknox-ui-triggers.md, before:

---
title: View information about activity triggers in CloudKnox Permissions Management
description: How to view information about activity triggers in the Activity triggers dashboard in CloudKnox Permissions Management.
services: active-directory
author: Yvonne-deQ
manager: karenh444
ms.service: active-directory
ms.subservice: ciem
ms.workload: identity
ms.topic: overview
ms.date: 02/02/2022
ms.author: v-ydequadros
---

# View information about activity triggers

This article describes how to use the **Activity triggers** dashboard in CloudKnox Permissions Management (CloudKnox) to view information about activity alerts and triggers.

## Display the Activity triggers dashboard

- In the CloudKnox home page, select **Activity triggers** (the bell icon).

    The **Activity triggers** dashboard has four tabs:

    - **Activity**
    - **Rule-based anomaly**
    - **Statistical anomaly**
    - **Permission analytics**

    Each tab has two subtabs:

    - **Alerts**
    - **Alert triggers**

## The Alerts subtab

The **Alerts** subtab in the **Activity**, **Rule-based anomaly**, **Statistical anomaly**, and **Permission analytics** tab displays the following information:

- **Alert Name**: You can display **All** triggers or specific triggers.
- **Date**: You can select **Last 24 hours**, **Last 2 Days**, **Last week**, or **Custom range.**
    - To specify a **Custom range**, enter a **From** and **To** duration.
    - Select **Apply** to activate your settings or **Reset filter** to discard your settings.
- **Reload**: Select **Reload** to refresh the displayed information.  
- **Create Alert Trigger**: Select this option to create a new alert trigger. 
    <!---Add link - For more information, see Create a new alert trigger.--->

The **Rule-based anomaly** tab and the **Statistical anomaly** tab both have one more option:

- **||| Columns**: Select the columns you want to display: **Task**, **Resource**, and **Identity**.
    - To return to the system default settings, select **Reset to default**.

## The Alert triggers subtab

The **Alert triggers** subtab in the **Activity**, **Rule-based anomaly**, **Statistical anomaly**, and **Permission analytics** tab displays the following information:

- **Status**: Select the alert status you want to display: **All**, **Activated**, or **Deactivated**.
- **Apply**: Select this option to activate your settings. 
- **Reset filter**: Select this option to discard your settings.
- **Reload**: Select **Reload** to refresh the displayed information.  
- **Create alert trigger**: Select this option to create a new alert trigger. 
    <!---Add link - For more information, see Create a new alert trigger.--->
- A list of alert triggers that displays:
    - **Alerts**: The name of the alert.
    - **# of users subscribed**: The number of users who have subscribed to the alert.
    - **Created by**: The name of the person who created the alert.
    - **Modified By**: The name of the person who modified the alert.


The **Rule-based anomaly** tab and the **Statistical anomaly** tab both have one more option:

- **||| Columns**: Select the columns you want to display: **Task**, **Resource**, and **Identity**.
    - To return to the system default settings, select **Reset to default**.




## Next steps

- For information on how to create and view an alert, see [Create and view an alert](cloudknox-howto-create-alert-trigger.md).

Commit message:

update product name and add preview message

docs/permissions-management/cloudknox-ui-triggers.md, after:

---
title: View information about activity triggers in CloudKnox Permissions Management
description: How to view information about activity triggers in the Activity triggers dashboard in CloudKnox Permissions Management.
services: active-directory
author: Yvonne-deQ
manager: karenh444
ms.service: active-directory
ms.subservice: ciem
ms.workload: identity
ms.topic: overview
ms.date: 02/02/2022
ms.author: v-ydequadros
---

# View information about activity triggers

> [!IMPORTANT]
> CloudKnox Permissions Management (CloudKnox) is currently in PREVIEW.
> Some information relates to a prerelease product that may be substantially modified before it's released. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

This article describes how to use the **Activity triggers** dashboard in CloudKnox Permissions Management (CloudKnox) to view information about activity alerts and triggers.

## Display the Activity triggers dashboard

- In the CloudKnox home page, select **Activity triggers** (the bell icon).

    The **Activity triggers** dashboard has four tabs:

    - **Activity**
    - **Rule-based anomaly**
    - **Statistical anomaly**
    - **Permission analytics**

    Each tab has two subtabs:

    - **Alerts**
    - **Alert triggers**

## The Alerts subtab

The **Alerts** subtab in the **Activity**, **Rule-based anomaly**, **Statistical anomaly**, and **Permission analytics** tab displays the following information:

- **Alert Name**: You can display **All** triggers or specific triggers.
- **Date**: You can select **Last 24 hours**, **Last 2 Days**, **Last week**, or **Custom range.**
    - To specify a **Custom range**, enter a **From** and **To** duration.
    - Select **Apply** to activate your settings or **Reset filter** to discard your settings.
- **Reload**: Select **Reload** to refresh the displayed information.  
- **Create Alert Trigger**: Select this option to create a new alert trigger. 
    <!---Add link - For more information, see Create a new alert trigger.--->

The **Rule-based anomaly** tab and the **Statistical anomaly** tab both have one more option:

- **||| Columns**: Select the columns you want to display: **Task**, **Resource**, and **Identity**.
    - To return to the system default settings, select **Reset to default**.

## The Alert triggers subtab

The **Alert triggers** subtab in the **Activity**, **Rule-based anomaly**, **Statistical anomaly**, and **Permission analytics** tab displays the following information:

- **Status**: Select the alert status you want to display: **All**, **Activated**, or **Deactivated**.
- **Apply**: Select this option to activate your settings. 
- **Reset filter**: Select this option to discard your settings.
- **Reload**: Select **Reload** to refresh the displayed information.  
- **Create alert trigger**: Select this option to create a new alert trigger. 
    <!---Add link - For more information, see Create a new alert trigger.--->
- A list of alert triggers that displays:
    - **Alerts**: The name of the alert.
    - **# of users subscribed**: The number of users who have subscribed to the alert.
    - **Created by**: The name of the person who created the alert.
    - **Modified By**: The name of the person who modified the alert.


The **Rule-based anomaly** tab and the **Statistical anomaly** tab both have one more option:

- **||| Columns**: Select the columns you want to display: **Task**, **Resource**, and **Identity**.
    - To return to the system default settings, select **Reset to default**.




## Next steps

- For information on how to create and view an alert, see [Create and view an alert](cloudknox-howto-create-alert-trigger.md).
