docs/permissions-management/cloudknox-product-permission-analytics.md, before:

---
title: Create and view permission analytics triggers in CloudKnox Permissions Management 
description: How to create and view permission analytics triggers in the Permission analytics tab in CloudKnox Permissions Management.
services: active-directory
author: Yvonne-deQ
manager: karenh444
ms.service: active-directory
ms.subservice: ciem
ms.workload: identity
ms.topic: how-to
ms.date: 02/22/2022
ms.author: v-ydequadros
---

# Create and view permission analytics triggers 

This article describes how you can create and view permission analytics triggers in CloudKnox Permissions Management (CloudKnox).

## View permission analytics triggers

1. In the CloudKnox home page, select **Activity triggers** (the bell icon).
1. Select **Permission analytics**, and then select the **Alerts** subtab.

    The **Alerts** subtab displays the following information:

      - **Alert name**: Lists the name of the alert.
           - To view the name, ID, role, domain, authorization system, statistical condition, anomaly date, and observance period, select **Alert name**.  
           - To expand the top information found with a graph of when the anomaly occurred, select **Details**. 
      - **Anomaly alert rule**: Displays the name of the rule select when creating the alert.
      - **# of Occurrences**: Displays how many times the alert trigger has occurred.
      - **Task**: Displays how many tasks are affected by the alert
      - **Resources**: Displays how many resources are affected by the alert
      - **Identity**: Displays how many identities are affected by the alert
      - **Authorization System**: Displays which authorization systems the alert applies to
      - **Date/Time**: Displays the date and time of the alert.
      - **Date/Time (UTC)**: Lists the date and time of the alert in Coordinated Universal Time (UTC).

1. To filter the alerts, select the appropriate alert name or, from the **Alert Name** menu,select **All**. 

      - From the **Date** dropdown menu, select **Last 24 Hours**, **Last 2 Days**, **Last Week**, or **Custom Range**, and then select **Apply**.
      - **View Trigger**: Displays the current trigger settings and applicable authorization system details.

1. To view the following details, select the ellipses (**...**):

      - **Details**: Displays **Authorization System Type**, **Authorization Systems**, **Resources**, **Tasks**, and **Identities** that matched the alert criteria.
1. To view specific matches, select **Resources**, **Tasks**, or **Identities**. 

   The **Activity** section displays details about the **Identity Name**, **Resource Name**, **Task Name**, **Date**, and **IP Address**.

## Create a permission analytics trigger

1. In the CloudKnox home page, select **Activity triggers** (the bell icon).
1. Select **Permission analytics**, select the **Alerts** subtab, and then select **Create Permission Analytics Trigger**.
1. In the **Alert name** box,  enter a name for the alert.
1. Select the **Authorization system**.
1. Select **Identity performed high number of tasks**, and then select **Next**.
1. On the **Authorization systems** tab, select the appropriate accounts and folders, or select **All**.  

    This screen defaults to the **List** view but can also be changed to the **Folder** view, and the applicable folder can be selected instead of individually by system.

    - The **Status** column displays if the authorization system is online or offline
    - The **Controller** column displays if the controller is enabled or disabled. 

1. On the **Configuration** tab, to update the **Time Interval**, select **90 Days**, **60 Days**, or **30 Days** from the **Time range** dropdown.
1. Select **Save**.

## View permission analytics alert triggers

1. In the CloudKnox home page, select **Activity triggers** (the bell icon).
1. Select **Permission analytics**, and then select the **Alert triggers** subtab.

    The **Alert triggers** subtab displays the following information:

      - **Alert**: Lists the name of the alert.
      - **Anomaly alert rule**: Displays the name of the rule select when creating the alert.
      - **# of users subscribed**: Displays the number of users subscribed to the alert.
      - **Created by**: Displays the email address of the user who created the alert.
      - **Last modified by**: Displays the email address of the user who last modified the alert.
      - **Last Modified On**: Displays the date and time the trigger was last modified.
      - **Subscription**: Toggle the button to **On** or **Off**.
      - **View trigger**: Displays the current trigger settings and applicable authorization system details.

1. To view other options available to you, select the ellipses (**...**), and then make a selection from the available options:

      - **Details** - Displays **Authorization System Type**, **Authorization Systems**, **Resources**, **Tasks**, and **Identities** that matched the alert criteria.
      - To view the specific matches, select **Resources**, **Tasks**, or **Identities**.
      - The **Activity** section displays details about the **Identity Name**, **Resource Name**, **Task Name**, **Date**, and **IP Address**.

1. To filter by **Activated** or **Deactivated**, in the **Status** section, select **All**, **Activated**, or **Deactivated**, and then select **Apply**.


## Next steps

- For information on how to create and view an alert, see [Create an alert](cloudknox-howto-create-alert-trigger.md). 
- For information on alerts and alert triggers, see [View alerts and alert triggers](cloudknox-howto-view-alert-trigger.md). 
- For information on rule-based anomalies and anomaly triggers, see [Create and view rule-based anomalies and anomaly triggers](cloudknox-product-rule-based-anomalies.md)
- For information on finding outliers in identity's behavior, see [Find outliers in an identity's behavior](cloudknox-product-statistical-anomalies.md)

Commit message:

update product name and add preview message

docs/permissions-management/cloudknox-product-permission-analytics.md, after:

---
title: Create and view permission analytics triggers in CloudKnox Permissions Management 
description: How to create and view permission analytics triggers in the Permission analytics tab in CloudKnox Permissions Management.
services: active-directory
author: Yvonne-deQ
manager: karenh444
ms.service: active-directory
ms.subservice: ciem
ms.workload: identity
ms.topic: how-to
ms.date: 02/22/2022
ms.author: v-ydequadros
---

# Create and view permission analytics triggers 

> [!IMPORTANT]
> CloudKnox Permissions Management (CloudKnox) is currently in PREVIEW.
> Some information relates to a prerelease product that may be substantially modified before it's released. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

This article describes how you can create and view permission analytics triggers in CloudKnox Permissions Management (CloudKnox).

## View permission analytics triggers

1. In the CloudKnox home page, select **Activity triggers** (the bell icon).
1. Select **Permission analytics**, and then select the **Alerts** subtab.

    The **Alerts** subtab displays the following information:

      - **Alert name**: Lists the name of the alert.
           - To view the name, ID, role, domain, authorization system, statistical condition, anomaly date, and observance period, select **Alert name**.  
           - To expand the top information found with a graph of when the anomaly occurred, select **Details**. 
      - **Anomaly alert rule**: Displays the name of the rule select when creating the alert.
      - **# of Occurrences**: Displays how many times the alert trigger has occurred.
      - **Task**: Displays how many tasks are affected by the alert
      - **Resources**: Displays how many resources are affected by the alert
      - **Identity**: Displays how many identities are affected by the alert
      - **Authorization System**: Displays which authorization systems the alert applies to
      - **Date/Time**: Displays the date and time of the alert.
      - **Date/Time (UTC)**: Lists the date and time of the alert in Coordinated Universal Time (UTC).

1. To filter the alerts, select the appropriate alert name or, from the **Alert Name** menu,select **All**. 

      - From the **Date** dropdown menu, select **Last 24 Hours**, **Last 2 Days**, **Last Week**, or **Custom Range**, and then select **Apply**.
      - **View Trigger**: Displays the current trigger settings and applicable authorization system details.

1. To view the following details, select the ellipses (**...**):

      - **Details**: Displays **Authorization System Type**, **Authorization Systems**, **Resources**, **Tasks**, and **Identities** that matched the alert criteria.
1. To view specific matches, select **Resources**, **Tasks**, or **Identities**. 

   The **Activity** section displays details about the **Identity Name**, **Resource Name**, **Task Name**, **Date**, and **IP Address**.

## Create a permission analytics trigger

1. In the CloudKnox home page, select **Activity triggers** (the bell icon).
1. Select **Permission analytics**, select the **Alerts** subtab, and then select **Create Permission Analytics Trigger**.
1. In the **Alert name** box,  enter a name for the alert.
1. Select the **Authorization system**.
1. Select **Identity performed high number of tasks**, and then select **Next**.
1. On the **Authorization systems** tab, select the appropriate accounts and folders, or select **All**.  

    This screen defaults to the **List** view but can also be changed to the **Folder** view, and the applicable folder can be selected instead of individually by system.

    - The **Status** column displays if the authorization system is online or offline
    - The **Controller** column displays if the controller is enabled or disabled. 

1. On the **Configuration** tab, to update the **Time Interval**, select **90 Days**, **60 Days**, or **30 Days** from the **Time range** dropdown.
1. Select **Save**.

## View permission analytics alert triggers

1. In the CloudKnox home page, select **Activity triggers** (the bell icon).
1. Select **Permission analytics**, and then select the **Alert triggers** subtab.

    The **Alert triggers** subtab displays the following information:

      - **Alert**: Lists the name of the alert.
      - **Anomaly alert rule**: Displays the name of the rule select when creating the alert.
      - **# of users subscribed**: Displays the number of users subscribed to the alert.
      - **Created by**: Displays the email address of the user who created the alert.
      - **Last modified by**: Displays the email address of the user who last modified the alert.
      - **Last Modified On**: Displays the date and time the trigger was last modified.
      - **Subscription**: Toggle the button to **On** or **Off**.
      - **View trigger**: Displays the current trigger settings and applicable authorization system details.

1. To view other options available to you, select the ellipses (**...**), and then make a selection from the available options:

      - **Details** displays **Authorization System Type**, **Authorization Systems**, **Resources**, **Tasks**, and **Identities** that matched the alert criteria.
      - To view the specific matches, select **Resources**, **Tasks**, or **Identities**.
      - The **Activity** section displays details about the **Identity Name**, **Resource Name**, **Task Name**, **Date**, and **IP Address**.

1. To filter by **Activated** or **Deactivated**, in the **Status** section, select **All**, **Activated**, or **Deactivated**, and then select **Apply**.


## Next steps

- For information on how to create and view an alert, see [Create an alert](cloudknox-howto-create-alert-trigger.md). 
- For information on alerts and alert triggers, see [View alerts and alert triggers](cloudknox-howto-view-alert-trigger.md). 
- For information on rule-based anomalies and anomaly triggers, see [Create and view rule-based anomalies and anomaly triggers](cloudknox-product-rule-based-anomalies.md)
- For information on finding outliers in identity's behavior, see [Find outliers in an identity's behavior](cloudknox-product-statistical-anomalies.md)
