docs/permissions-management/cloudknox-howto-clone-role-policy.md, before:

---
title: Clone a role/policy in the JEP Controller in Microsoft CloudKnox Permissions Management 
description: How to clone a role/policy in the Just Enough Permissions (JEP) Controller.
services: active-directory
author: Yvonne-deQ
manager: karenh444
ms.service: active-directory
ms.subservice: ciem
ms.workload: identity
ms.topic: how-to
ms.date: 02/01/2022
ms.author: v-ydequadros
---

# Clone a role/policy in the JEP Controller

This article describes how you can use the JEP Controller in Microsoft CloudKnox Permissions Management to clone roles/policies for the Amazon Web Services (AWS), Microsoft Azure, or Google Cloud Platform (GCP) authorization systems. 

> [!NOTE]
> To view the **JEP Controller** tab, you must have **Viewer**, **Controller**, or **Administrator** permissions. To make changes on this tab, you must have **Controller** or **Administrator** permissions. If you don’t have these permissions, contact your system administrator.

> [!NOTE]
> Microsoft Azure uses the term *role* for what other Cloud providers call *policy*. CloudKnox automatically makes this terminology change when you select the authorization system type. In the user documentation, we use *role/policy* to refer to both.

## Clone a role/policy

1. On the CloudKnox home page, select the **JEP Controller** tab, and then select the **Role/Policies** tab.
1. Select the role/policy you want to clone, and from the **Actions** column, select **Clone**.
1. **(AWS Only)** In the **Clone** box, the **Clone Resources** and **Clone Conditions** checkboxes are automatically selected. 
    Deselect the boxes if the resources and conditions are different from what is displayed.
1. Enter a name for each authorization system that was selected in the **Policy Name** boxes, and then select **Next**.

1. If the data collector hasn't been given controller privileges, the following message displays: **Only online/controller-enabled authorization systems can be submitted for cloning.**

   To clone this role manually, download the script and JSON file. 

1. Select **Submit**.
1. Refresh the **Role/Policies** tab to see the role/policy you cloned.

## Next steps

- For information on how to view roles/policies, see [View information about roles/policies in the JEP Controller](cloudknox-howto-view-role-policy.md).
- For information on how to create roles/policies, see [Create a role/policy in the JEP Controller](cloudknox-howto-create-role-policy.md).
- For information on how to modify roles/policies, see [Modify a role/policy in the JEP Controller](cloudknox-howto-modify-role-policy.md).
- For information on how to delete roles/policies, see [Delete a role/policy in the JEP Controller](cloudknox-howto-delete-role-policy.md).

Commit message:

update product name and add preview message

docs/permissions-management/cloudknox-howto-clone-role-policy.md, after:

---
title: Clone a role/policy in the JEP Controller in CloudKnox Permissions Management 
description: How to clone a role/policy in the Just Enough Permissions (JEP) Controller.
services: active-directory
author: Yvonne-deQ
manager: karenh444
ms.service: active-directory
ms.subservice: ciem
ms.workload: identity
ms.topic: how-to
ms.date: 02/02/2022
ms.author: v-ydequadros
---

# Clone a role/policy in the JEP Controller

> [!IMPORTANT]
> CloudKnox Permissions Management (CloudKnox) is currently in PREVIEW.
> Some information relates to a prerelease product that may be substantially modified before it's released. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

This article describes how you can use the JEP Controller in CloudKnox Permissions Management to clone roles/policies for the Amazon Web Services (AWS), Microsoft Azure, or Google Cloud Platform (GCP) authorization systems. 

> [!NOTE]
> To view the **JEP Controller** tab, you must have **Viewer**, **Controller**, or **Administrator** permissions. To make changes on this tab, you must have **Controller** or **Administrator** permissions. If you don’t have these permissions, contact your system administrator.

> [!NOTE]
> Microsoft Azure uses the term *role* for what other Cloud providers call *policy*. CloudKnox automatically makes this terminology change when you select the authorization system type. In the user documentation, we use *role/policy* to refer to both.

## Clone a role/policy

1. On the CloudKnox home page, select the **JEP Controller** tab, and then select the **Role/Policies** tab.
1. Select the role/policy you want to clone, and from the **Actions** column, select **Clone**.
1. **(AWS Only)** In the **Clone** box, the **Clone Resources** and **Clone Conditions** checkboxes are automatically selected. 
    Deselect the boxes if the resources and conditions are different from what is displayed.
1. Enter a name for each authorization system that was selected in the **Policy Name** boxes, and then select **Next**.

1. If the data collector hasn't been given controller privileges, the following message displays: **Only online/controller-enabled authorization systems can be submitted for cloning.**

   To clone this role manually, download the script and JSON file. 

1. Select **Submit**.
1. Refresh the **Role/Policies** tab to see the role/policy you cloned.

## Next steps

- For information on how to view roles/policies, see [View information about roles/policies in the JEP Controller](cloudknox-howto-view-role-policy.md).
- For information on how to create roles/policies, see [Create a role/policy in the JEP Controller](cloudknox-howto-create-role-policy.md).
- For information on how to modify roles/policies, see [Modify a role/policy in the JEP Controller](cloudknox-howto-modify-role-policy.md).
- For information on how to delete roles/policies, see [Delete a role/policy in the JEP Controller](cloudknox-howto-delete-role-policy.md).
