docs/permissions-management/cloudknox-faqs.md, before:

---
title: Microsoft CloudKnox Permissions Management - Frequently asked questions (FAQs) 
description: Frequently asked questions (FAQs) about Microsoft CloudKnox Permissions Management
services: active-directory
author: Yvonne-deQ
manager: karenh444
ms.service: active-directory
ms.subservice: ciem
ms.workload: identity
ms.topic: faq
ms.date: 01/17/2022
ms.author: v-ydequadros
---

# Frequently asked questions (FAQs)

This section answers frequently asked questions (FAQs) from Microsoft CloudKnox Permissions Management (CloudKnox) users.

## Is Microsoft CloudKnox just for Azure? What integrations does CloudKnox have with Azure Active Directory (AD), Azure, and other Microsoft services?

Microsoft supports CloudKnox's multi-IaaS. Our product uses Azure AD and helps customers manage access and reduce risk across Azure, AWS, Google, and other services.  

## I have customers who are interested in learning more about CloudKnox. Who should I contact to find out how to help my customers learn, try, buy, and use CloudKnox? 

Our sales and Global Black Belt (GBB) teams continue selling CloudKnox to customers. To begin discussion and learn how to connect your customers to the CloudKnox sales team, contact CloudKnox Questions.

## Where can I learn more about CloudKnox and cloud security?

We have the following learning assets on the web:

- [Product overview: Cloud Infrastructure Security Platform (cloudknox.io)](https://nam06.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fcloudknox.io%2Fproducts-solutions%2F&data=04%7C01%7Cstevebal%40microsoft.com%7Ca98b4790ed7146eca57208d988ee444f%7C72f988bf86f141af91ab2d7cd011db47%7C1%7C0%7C637691379216326312%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJWIjoiMC4wLjAwMDAiLCJQIjoiV2luMzIiLCJBTiI6Ik1haWwiLCJXVCI6Mn0%3D%7C1000&sdata=6ullyIooctrv795SAt4VLteRAIcMUrez7Hs00zLScfY%3D&reserved=0)
- [Risk Assessment trial: No Cost, No Obligation Cloud Security Assessment - CloudKnox](https://nam06.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fcloudknox.io%2Frisk-assessment%2F&data=04%7C01%7Cstevebal%40microsoft.com%7Ca98b4790ed7146eca57208d988ee444f%7C72f988bf86f141af91ab2d7cd011db47%7C1%7C0%7C637691379216336270%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJWIjoiMC4wLjAwMDAiLCJQIjoiV2luMzIiLCJBTiI6Ik1haWwiLCJXVCI6Mn0%3D%7C1000&sdata=9hluz9JOhE%2BQ2XypUzaYu1erEbhVbd80QPNUtrXGp9g%3D&reserved=0)
- [Customer case studies: CloudKnox-Customer-Success-Story-Horsley-Bridge-Partners.pdf](https://nam06.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fcloudknox.io%2Fwp-content%2Fuploads%2F2019%2F12%2FCloudKnox-Customer-Success-Story-Horsley-Bridge-Partners.pdf&data=04%7C01%7Cstevebal%40microsoft.com%7Ca98b4790ed7146eca57208d988ee444f%7C72f988bf86f141af91ab2d7cd011db47%7C1%7C0%7C637691379216336270%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJWIjoiMC4wLjAwMDAiLCJQIjoiV2luMzIiLCJBTiI6Ik1haWwiLCJXVCI6Mn0%3D%7C1000&sdata=omFhGtkTrpnskXLrSI1kI4zeHvTq1Rw7D0wMaLNeuHE%3D&reserved=0)

## How can I learn more about the CloudKnox team and technologies?

The [CloudKnox website](https://nam06.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fcloudknox.io%2Fwp-content%2Fuploads%2F2019%2F12%2FCloudKnox-Customer-Success-Story-Horsley-Bridge-Partners.pdf&data=04%7C01%7Cstevebal%40microsoft.com%7Ca98b4790ed7146eca57208d988ee444f%7C72f988bf86f141af91ab2d7cd011db47%7C1%7C0%7C637691379216326312%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJWIjoiMC4wLjAwMDAiLCJQIjoiV2luMzIiLCJBTiI6Ik1haWwiLCJXVCI6Mn0%3D%7C1000&sdata=D%2BIHpRNqA2d92rMn6RhOdo3LSXcSH7U4XxWUV9iqBXI%3D&reserved=0) has resources available for customers who are interested in continuing to use the current product.

## Does CloudKnox support Oracle?

We currently support Amazon Web Services (AWS), Google Cloud Platform (GCP), Microsoft Azure, and VMware (vSphere).

## Does CloudKnox have Jenkins or Bitbucket integration?  

CloudKnox does not support Jenkins or Bitbucket integration.

## What is the CloudKnox pricing model?

For pricing information, see the [Azure pricing](https://azure.microsoft.com/pricing) page in the Azure portal.  

## Recommended content

- [SCI-M MPR Whitepaper CloudKnox Integration FINAL.docx](https://microsoft-my.sharepoint.com/:w:/p/kamurphy/ERHhzFpHjEpIqKjxDx6M_WUBk19tFY6DyxC58tQMXkKn-Q?e=QlruFS)
- [Assets for Learning: Identity & Network Access Division](https://microsoft.sharepoint.com/teams/activedirectory/Active%20Directory%20Doc%20Library/Forms/AllItems.aspx?id=%2Fteams%2Factivedirectory%2FActive%20Directory%20Doc%20Library%2FCloudKnox%2FAssets%20for%20Learning&viewid=03b0247d%2D981b%2D46e6%2D8d18%2D9dfbbbd66353)

<!---## Next steps--->

Commit message:

update product name and add preview message

docs/permissions-management/cloudknox-faqs.md, after:

---
title: CloudKnox Permissions Management - Frequently asked questions (FAQs) 
description: Frequently asked questions (FAQs) about CloudKnox Permissions Management
services: active-directory
author: Yvonne-deQ
manager: karenh444
ms.service: active-directory
ms.subservice: ciem
ms.workload: identity
ms.topic: faq
ms.date: 02/02/2022
ms.author: v-ydequadros
---

# Frequently asked questions (FAQs)

> [!IMPORTANT]
> CloudKnox Permissions Management (CloudKnox) is currently in PREVIEW.
> Some information relates to a prerelease product that may be substantially modified before it's released. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.


This article answers frequently asked questions (FAQs) from CloudKnox Permissions Management (CloudKnox) users.

## Is CloudKnox just for Azure? What integrations does CloudKnox have with Azure Active Directory (AD), Azure, and other Microsoft services?

Microsoft supports CloudKnox's multi-IaaS. Our product uses Azure AD and helps customers manage access and reduce risk across Azure, AWS, Google, and other services.  

## I have customers who are interested in learning more about CloudKnox. Who should I contact to find out how to help my customers learn, try, buy, and use CloudKnox? 

Our sales and Global Black Belt (GBB) teams continue selling CloudKnox to customers. To begin discussion and learn how to connect your customers to the CloudKnox sales team, contact CloudKnox Questions.

## Where can I learn more about CloudKnox and cloud security?

We have the following learning assets on the web:

- [Product overview: Cloud Infrastructure Security Platform (cloudknox.io)](https://nam06.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fcloudknox.io%2Fproducts-solutions%2F&data=04%7C01%7Cstevebal%40microsoft.com%7Ca98b4790ed7146eca57208d988ee444f%7C72f988bf86f141af91ab2d7cd011db47%7C1%7C0%7C637691379216326312%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJWIjoiMC4wLjAwMDAiLCJQIjoiV2luMzIiLCJBTiI6Ik1haWwiLCJXVCI6Mn0%3D%7C1000&sdata=6ullyIooctrv795SAt4VLteRAIcMUrez7Hs00zLScfY%3D&reserved=0)
- [Risk Assessment trial: No Cost, No Obligation Cloud Security Assessment - CloudKnox](https://nam06.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fcloudknox.io%2Frisk-assessment%2F&data=04%7C01%7Cstevebal%40microsoft.com%7Ca98b4790ed7146eca57208d988ee444f%7C72f988bf86f141af91ab2d7cd011db47%7C1%7C0%7C637691379216336270%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJWIjoiMC4wLjAwMDAiLCJQIjoiV2luMzIiLCJBTiI6Ik1haWwiLCJXVCI6Mn0%3D%7C1000&sdata=9hluz9JOhE%2BQ2XypUzaYu1erEbhVbd80QPNUtrXGp9g%3D&reserved=0)
- [Customer case studies: CloudKnox-Customer-Success-Story-Horsley-Bridge-Partners.pdf](https://nam06.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fcloudknox.io%2Fwp-content%2Fuploads%2F2019%2F12%2FCloudKnox-Customer-Success-Story-Horsley-Bridge-Partners.pdf&data=04%7C01%7Cstevebal%40microsoft.com%7Ca98b4790ed7146eca57208d988ee444f%7C72f988bf86f141af91ab2d7cd011db47%7C1%7C0%7C637691379216336270%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJWIjoiMC4wLjAwMDAiLCJQIjoiV2luMzIiLCJBTiI6Ik1haWwiLCJXVCI6Mn0%3D%7C1000&sdata=omFhGtkTrpnskXLrSI1kI4zeHvTq1Rw7D0wMaLNeuHE%3D&reserved=0)

## How can I learn more about the CloudKnox team and technologies?

The [CloudKnox website](https://nam06.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fcloudknox.io%2Fwp-content%2Fuploads%2F2019%2F12%2FCloudKnox-Customer-Success-Story-Horsley-Bridge-Partners.pdf&data=04%7C01%7Cstevebal%40microsoft.com%7Ca98b4790ed7146eca57208d988ee444f%7C72f988bf86f141af91ab2d7cd011db47%7C1%7C0%7C637691379216326312%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJWIjoiMC4wLjAwMDAiLCJQIjoiV2luMzIiLCJBTiI6Ik1haWwiLCJXVCI6Mn0%3D%7C1000&sdata=D%2BIHpRNqA2d92rMn6RhOdo3LSXcSH7U4XxWUV9iqBXI%3D&reserved=0) has resources available for customers who are interested in continuing to use the current product.

## Does CloudKnox support Oracle?

We currently support Amazon Web Services (AWS), Google Cloud Platform (GCP), Microsoft Azure, and VMware (vSphere).

## Does CloudKnox have Jenkins or Bitbucket integration?  

CloudKnox does not support Jenkins or Bitbucket integration.

## What is the CloudKnox pricing model?

For pricing information, see the [Azure pricing](https://azure.microsoft.com/pricing) page in the Azure portal.  

## Recommended content

- [SCI-M MPR Whitepaper CloudKnox Integration FINAL.docx](https://microsoft-my.sharepoint.com/:w:/p/kamurphy/ERHhzFpHjEpIqKjxDx6M_WUBk19tFY6DyxC58tQMXkKn-Q?e=QlruFS)
- [Assets for Learning: Identity & Network Access Division](https://microsoft.sharepoint.com/teams/activedirectory/Active%20Directory%20Doc%20Library/Forms/AllItems.aspx?id=%2Fteams%2Factivedirectory%2FActive%20Directory%20Doc%20Library%2FCloudKnox%2FAssets%20for%20Learning&viewid=03b0247d%2D981b%2D46e6%2D8d18%2D9dfbbbd66353)

<!---## Next steps--->
