docs/identity/domain-services/reference-domain-services-tls-enforcement.md, before:

---
title: How to migrate to Transport Layer Security (TLS) 1.2 enforcement for Microsoft Entra Domain Services | Microsoft Learn
description: Learn how to enforce TLS 1.2 for a Microsoft Entra Domain Services managed domain.
author: justinha
manager: dougeby

ms.assetid: 6b4665b5-4324-42ab-82c5-d36c01192c2a
ms.service: entra-id
ms.subservice: domain-services
ms.topic: how-to
ms.date: 07/14/2025
ms.author: justinha
ms.reviewer: bochingwa
ms.custom: has-azure-ad-ps-ref, azure-ad-ref-level-one-done
---
# How to migrate to Transport Layer Security (TLS) 1.2 enforcement for Microsoft Entra Domain Services

Microsoft is enhancing security by disabling TLS versions 1.0 and 1.1 as communicated on November 10, 2023. While the Microsoft implementation of TLS 1.0 and TLS 1.1 versions isn't known to have vulnerabilities, TLS 1.2 or later versions provide improved security features, including perfect forward secrecy and stronger cipher suites. This change helps protect customer data and ensures compliance with industry standards.

Microsoft Entra Domain Services supports TLS versions 1.0 and 1.1, but they're disabled by default. Domain Services has removed the ability to disable **TLS 1.2 Only Mode**. Customers who disable **TLS 1.2 Only Mode** can enable it. 

You can use the Azure portal or PowerShell to enable **TLS 1.2 Only Mode**.

## Identify applications that use deprecated TLS versions

Before you enable **TLS 1.2 Only Mode**, it's important to identify applications that still use TLS 1.0 or 1.1, and update them or replace them with alternatives that support TLS 1.2. For more information about apps that are expected to be impacted, see [TLS 1.0 and TLS 1.1 deprecation in Windows](/windows/win32/secauthn/tls-10-11-deprecation-in-windows).

## [**Azure portal**](#tab/portal)

1. In the Azure portal, search for **Domain Services**, and select your Domain Services instance. 
1. Select **Security Settings**.
1. If **TLS 1.2 Only Mode** is set to **Disable**, the instance enables TLS versions 1.0 and 1.1. Set **TLS 1.2 Only Mode** to **Enable**, and then click **Save**.

   This change may take about 10 minutes to complete as domain security updates are enforced.

   :::image type="content" border="true" source="media/reference-domain-services-tls-enforcement/enable.png" alt-text="Screenshot that shows how to enable TLS 1.2 Only Mode for Domain Services.":::

## [**PowerShell**](#tab/powershell)


1. Install the Az.ADDomainServices module:

   ```powershell
   Install-Module -Name Az.ADDomainServices
   ```

1. Connect to the Azure subscription:

   ```powershell
   Connect-AzAccount -Subscription aaaa0a0a-bb1b-cc2c-dd3d-eeeeee4e4e4e
   ```

1. Update the value of **TLS 1.2 Only Mode** by executing these two commands:

   ```powershell
   $domainService = Get-AzADDomainService
   ```
   
   ```powershell
   Update-AzADDomainService -Name $domainService.Name -ResourceGroupName $domainService.ResourceGroupName -DomainSecuritySettingTlsV1 Disabled
   ```

   This command may take about 10 minutes to complete as domain security updates are enforced.

## Troubleshooting

- **Use application-level diagnostics**: Some apps provide logs or error messages when TLS handshakes fail. Look for errors related to unsupported protocols.

- If the steps to enable **TLS 1.2 Only Mode** fail, or if your want to **temporarily disable TLS 1.2 Only Mode** open an [Azure support request](/entra/fundamentals/how-to-get-support) for more troubleshooting help. 

## Related content

- [Enable support for TLS 1.2 in your environment for Microsoft Entra TLS 1.1 and 1.0 deprecation](/troubleshoot/entra/entra-id/ad-dmn-services/enable-support-tls-environment)
- [TLS 1.2 enforcement for Microsoft Entra Connect](/entra/identity/hybrid/connect/reference-connect-tls-enforcement)

Commit message:

Update reference-domain-services-tls-enforcement.md (#54)
Update docs with changes allowing customers temporary fall back to allow time to work on failing apps after upgrade.

docs/identity/domain-services/reference-domain-services-tls-enforcement.md, after:

---
title: How to migrate to Transport Layer Security (TLS) 1.2 enforcement for Microsoft Entra Domain Services | Microsoft Learn
description: Learn how to enforce TLS 1.2 for a Microsoft Entra Domain Services managed domain.
author: justinha
manager: dougeby

ms.assetid: 6b4665b5-4324-42ab-82c5-d36c01192c2a
ms.service: entra-id
ms.subservice: domain-services
ms.topic: how-to
ms.date: 07/14/2025
ms.author: justinha
ms.reviewer: bochingwa
ms.custom: has-azure-ad-ps-ref, azure-ad-ref-level-one-done
---
# How to migrate to Transport Layer Security (TLS) 1.2 enforcement for Microsoft Entra Domain Services

Microsoft is enhancing security by disabling TLS versions 1.0 and 1.1 as communicated on November 10, 2023. While the Microsoft implementation of TLS 1.0 and TLS 1.1 versions isn't known to have vulnerabilities, TLS 1.2 or later versions provide improved security features, including perfect forward secrecy and stronger cipher suites. This change helps protect customer data and ensures compliance with industry standards.

Microsoft Entra Domain Services supports TLS versions 1.0 and 1.1, but they're disabled by default. Domain Services has removed the ability to disable **TLS 1.2 Only Mode**. Customers who disable **TLS 1.2 Only Mode** can enable it. 

You can use the Azure portal or PowerShell to enable **TLS 1.2 Only Mode**.

## Identify applications that use deprecated TLS versions

Before you enable **TLS 1.2 Only Mode**, it's important to identify applications that still use TLS 1.0 or 1.1, and update them or replace them with alternatives that support TLS 1.2. For more information about apps that are expected to be impacted, see [TLS 1.0 and TLS 1.1 deprecation in Windows](/windows/win32/secauthn/tls-10-11-deprecation-in-windows).

## [**Azure portal**](#tab/portal)

1. In the Azure portal, search for **Domain Services**, and select your Domain Services instance. 
1. Select **Security Settings**.
1. If **TLS 1.2 Only Mode** is set to **Disable**, the instance enables TLS versions 1.0 and 1.1. Set **TLS 1.2 Only Mode** to **Enable**, and then click **Save**.

   This change may take about 10 minutes to complete as domain security updates are enforced.

   :::image type="content" border="true" source="media/reference-domain-services-tls-enforcement/enable.png" alt-text="Screenshot that shows how to enable TLS 1.2 Only Mode for Domain Services.":::

***Note:*** Incase of any issues that may require rollback you can click `Disable` to allow legacy TLS traffic as you work on updating or replacing apps that might be failing before clicking enable again to remain compliant. This is allowed till August 31 2025. 

## [**PowerShell**](#tab/powershell)


1. Install the Az.ADDomainServices module:

   ```powershell
   Install-Module -Name Az.ADDomainServices
   ```

1. Connect to the Azure subscription:

   ```powershell
   Connect-AzAccount -Subscription aaaa0a0a-bb1b-cc2c-dd3d-eeeeee4e4e4e
   ```

1. Update the value of **TLS 1.2 Only Mode** by executing these two commands:

   ```powershell
   $domainService = Get-AzADDomainService
   ```
   
   ```powershell
   Update-AzADDomainService -Name $domainService.Name -ResourceGroupName $domainService.ResourceGroupName -DomainSecuritySettingTlsV1 Disabled
   ```

   This command may take about 10 minutes to complete as domain security updates are enforced.


## Troubleshooting

- **Use application-level diagnostics**: Some apps provide logs or error messages when TLS handshakes fail. Look for errors related to unsupported protocols.

- ***Note*** Incase of any issues that may require rollback you can execute this command to temporarily allow legacy TLS traffic as you update or replace the failng apps. This is allowed till August 31, 2025.

 ```powershell
   Update-AzADDomainService -Name $domainService.Name -ResourceGroupName $domainService.ResourceGroupName -DomainSecuritySettingTlsV1 Enabled
   ```

- Incase of any further assistance please open an [Azure support request](/entra/fundamentals/how-to-get-support) for more troubleshooting help. 

## Related content

- [Enable support for TLS 1.2 in your environment for Microsoft Entra TLS 1.1 and 1.0 deprecation](/troubleshoot/entra/entra-id/ad-dmn-services/enable-support-tls-environment)
- [TLS 1.2 enforcement for Microsoft Entra Connect](/entra/identity/hybrid/connect/reference-connect-tls-enforcement)
