docs/id-governance/entitlement-management-access-package-edit.md, before:

---
title: Edit and manage an existing access package in Azure AD entitlement management (Preview) - Azure Active Directory
description: Learn how to edit and manage an existing access package in Azure Active Directory entitlement management (Preview).
services: active-directory
documentationCenter: ''
author: rolyon
manager: mtillman
editor: 
ms.service: active-directory
ms.workload: identity
ms.tgt_pltfrm: na
ms.devlang: na
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.subservice: compliance
ms.date: 05/16/2019
ms.author: rolyon
ms.reviewer: 
ms.collection: M365-identity-device-management


#Customer intent: As an administrator, I want detailed information about how I can edit an access package so that requestors have the resources they need to perform their job.

---
# Edit and manage an existing access package in Azure AD entitlement management (Preview)

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) entitlement management is currently in public preview.
> This preview version is provided without a service level agreement, and it's not recommended for production workloads. Certain features might not be supported or might have constrained capabilities.
> For more information, see [Supplemental Terms of Use for Microsoft Azure Previews](https://azure.microsoft.com/support/legal/preview-supplemental-terms/).

An access package enables you to do a one-time setup of resources and policies that automatically administers access for the life of the access package. As an access package manager, you can change the resources in an access package at any time without worrying about provisioning the user's access to the new resources, or removing their access from the previous resources. Policies can also be updated at any time, however, the policy changes only affect new accesses.

This article describes how to edit and manage existing access packages.

## Add resource roles

A resource role is a collection of permissions associated with a resource. The way you make resources available for users to request is by adding resource roles to your access package. You can add resource roles for groups, applications, and SharePoint sites.

**Prerequisite role:** User administrator, Catalog owner, or Access package manager

1. In the Azure portal, click **Azure Active Directory** and then click **Identity Governance**.

1. In the left menu, click **Access packages** and then open the access package.

1. In the left menu, click **Resource roles**.

1. Click **Add resource roles** to open the Add resource roles to access package page.

    ![Access package - Add resource roles](./media/entitlement-management-access-package-edit/resource-roles-add.png)

1. Depending on whether you want to add a group, application, or SharePoint site, perform the steps in one of the following resource role sections.

### Add a group resource role

You can have entitlement management automatically add users to a group when they are assigned an access package. 

- When a group is part of an access package and a user is assigned to that access package, the user is added to that group, if not already present.
- When a user's access package assignment expires, they are removed from the group, unless they currently have an assignment to another access package that includes that same group.

You can select any Office 365 group or Azure AD security group.  Administrators can add any group to a catalog; catalog owners can add any group to the catalog if they are owner of the group. Keep the following Azure AD constraints in mind when selecting a group:

- When a user, including a guest, is added as a member to a group, they can see all the other members of that group.
- Azure AD cannot change the membership of a group that was synchronized from Windows Server Active Directory using Azure AD Connect.  
- The membership of dynamic groups cannot be updated by adding or removing a member, so dynamic group memberships are not suitable for use with entitlement management.

1. On the **Add resource roles to access package** page, click **Groups** to open the Select groups pane.

1. Select the groups you want to include in the access package.

    ![Access package - Add resource roles - Select groups](./media/entitlement-management-access-package-edit/group-select.png)

1. Click **Select**.

1. In the **Role** list, select **Owner** or **Member**.

    You typically select the Member role. If you select the Owner role, that will allow users to add or remove other members or owners.

    ![Access package - Add resource role for a group](./media/entitlement-management-access-package-edit/group-role.png)

1. Click **Add**.

    Any users with existing assignments to the access package will automatically become members of this group when it is added.

### Add an application resource role

You can have Azure AD automatically assign users access to an Azure AD enterprise application, including both SaaS applications and your organization's applications federated to Azure AD, when a user is assigned an access package. For applications that integrate with Azure AD through federated single sign-on, Azure AD will issue federation tokens for users assigned to the application.

Applications can have multiple roles. When adding an application to an access package, if that application has more than one role, you will need to specify the appropriate role for those users.  If you are developing applications, you can read more about how those roles are provided to your applications in the article on how to [configure the role claim issued in the SAML token](../develop/active-directory-enterprise-app-role-management.md).

Once an application role is part of an access package:

- When a user is assigned that access package, the user is added to that application role, if not already present.
- When a user's access package assignment expires, their access will be removed from the application, unless they have an assignment to another access package that includes that application role.

Here are some considerations when selecting an application:

- Applications may also have groups assigned to their roles as well.  You can choose to add a group in place of an application role in an access package, however then the application will not be visible to the user as part of the access package in the My Access portal.

1. On the **Add resource roles to access package** page, click **Applications** to open the Select applications pane.

1. Select the applications you want to include in the access package.

    ![Access package - Add resource roles - Select applications](./media/entitlement-management-access-package-edit/application-select.png)

1. Click **Select**.

1. In the **Role** list, select an application role.

    ![Access package - Add resource role for an application](./media/entitlement-management-access-package-edit/application-role.png)

1. Click **Add**.

    Any users with existing assignments to the access package will automatically be given access to this application when it is added.

### Add a SharePoint site resource role

Azure AD can automatically assign users access to a SharePoint Online site or SharePoint Online site collection when they are assigned an access package.

1. On the **Add resource roles to access package** page, click **SharePoint sites** to open the Select SharePoint Online sites pane.

1. Select the SharePoint Online sites you want to include in the access package.

    ![Access package - Add resource roles - Select SharePoint Online sites](./media/entitlement-management-access-package-edit/sharepoint-site-select.png)

1. Click **Select**.

1. In the **Role** list, select a SharePoint Online site role.

    ![Access package - Add resource role for a SharePoint Online site](./media/entitlement-management-access-package-edit/sharepoint-site-role.png)

1. Click **Add**.

    Any users with existing assignments to the access package will automatically be given access to this SharePoint Online site when it is added.

## Remove resource roles

**Prerequisite role:** User administrator, Catalog owner, or Access package manager

1. In the Azure portal, click **Azure Active Directory** and then click **Identity Governance**.

1. In the left menu, click **Access packages** and then open the access package.

1. In the left menu, click **Resource roles**.

1. In the list of resource roles, find the resource role you want to remove.

1. Click the ellipsis (**...**) and then click **Remove resource role**.

    Any users with existing assignments to the access package will automatically have their access revoked to this resource role when it is removed.

## Add a new policy

The way you specify who can request an access package is to create a policy. You can create multiple policies for a single access package if you want to allow different sets of users to be granted assignments with different approval and expiration settings. A single policy cannot be used to assign internal and external users to the same access package. However, you can create two policies in the same access package -- one for internal users and one for external users. If there are multiple policies that apply to a user, they will be prompted at the time of their request to select the policy they would like to be assigned to.

The following diagram shows the high-level process to create a policy for an existing access package.

![Create a policy process](./media/entitlement-management-access-package-edit/policy-process.png)

**Prerequisite role:** User administrator, Catalog owner, or Access package manager

1. In the Azure portal, click **Azure Active Directory** and then click **Identity Governance**.

1. In the left menu, click **Access packages** and then open the access package.

1. Click **Policies** and then **Add policy**.

1. Type a name and a description for the policy.

    ![Create policy with name and description](./media/entitlement-management-access-package-edit/policy-name-description.png)

1. Based on your selection for **Users who can request access**, perform the steps in one of the following policy sections.

[!INCLUDE [Entitlement management policy](../../../includes/active-directory-entitlement-management-policy.md)]

## Edit an existing policy

You can edit a policy at any time. If you change the expiration date for a policy, the expiration date for requests that are already in a pending approval or approved state will not change.

**Prerequisite role:** User administrator, Catalog owner, or Access package manager

1. In the Azure portal, click **Azure Active Directory** and then click **Identity Governance**.

1. In the left menu, click **Access packages** and then open the access package.

1. Click **Policies** and then click the policy you want to edit.

    The **Policy details** pane opens at the bottom of the page.

    ![Access package - Policy details pane](./media/entitlement-management-access-package-edit/policy-details.png)

1. Click **Edit** to edit the policy.

    ![Access package - Edit policy](./media/entitlement-management-access-package-edit/policy-edit.png)

1. When finished, click **Update**.

## Directly assign a user

In some cases, you might want to directly assign specific users to an access package so that users don't have to go through the process of requesting the access package. To directly assign users, the access package must have a policy that allows administrator direct assignments.

**Prerequisite role:** User administrator, Catalog owner, or Access package manager

1. In the Azure portal, click **Azure Active Directory** and then click **Identity Governance**.

1. In the left menu, click **Access packages** and then open the access package.

1. In the left menu, click **Assignments**.

1. Click **New assignment** to open Add user to access package.

    ![Assignments - Add user to access package](./media/entitlement-management-access-package-edit/assignments-add-user.png)

1. Click **Add users** to select the users you want to assign the access package to.

1. In the **Select policy** list, select a policy that has the [None (administrator direct assignments only)](#policy-none-administrator-direct-assignments-only) setting.

    If this access package does not have this type of policy, you can click **Create new policy** to add one.

1. Set the date and time you want the selected users' assignment to start and end. If an end date is not provided, the policy's expiration settings will be used.

1. Optionally provide a justification for your direct assignment for record keeping.

1. Click **Add** to directly assign the selected users to the access package.

    After a few moments, click **Refresh** to see the users in the Assignments list.

## View who has an assignment

**Prerequisite role:** User administrator, Catalog owner, or Access package manager

1. In the Azure portal, click **Azure Active Directory** and then click **Identity Governance**.

1. In the left menu, click **Access packages** and then open the access package.

1. Click **Assignments** to see a list of active assignments.

1. Click a specific assignment to see additional details.

1. To see a list of assignments that did not have all resource roles properly provisioned, click the filter status and select **Delivering**.

    You can see additional details on delivery errors by locating the user's corresponding request on the **Requests** page.

1. To see expired assignments, click the filter status and select **Expired**.

1. To download a CSV file of the filtered list, click **Download**.

## View requests

**Prerequisite role:** User administrator, Catalog owner, or Access package manager

1. In the Azure portal, click **Azure Active Directory** and then click **Identity Governance**.

1. In the left menu, click **Access packages** and then open the access package.

1. Click **Requests**.

1. Click a specific request to see additional details.

## View a request's delivery errors

**Prerequisite role:** User administrator, Catalog owner, or Access package manager

1. In the Azure portal, click **Azure Active Directory** and then click **Identity Governance**.

1. In the left menu, click **Access packages** and then open the access package.

1. Click **Requests**.

1. Select the request you want to view.

    If the request has any delivery errors, the request status will be **Undelivered** and the substatus will be **Partially delivered**.

    If there are any delivery errors, in the request's detail pane, there will be a count of delivery errors.

1. Click the count to see all of the request's delivery errors.

## Cancel a pending request

You can only cancel a pending request that has not yet been delivered.

**Prerequisite role:** User administrator, Catalog owner, or Access package manager

1. In the Azure portal, click **Azure Active Directory** and then click **Identity Governance**.

1. In the left menu, click **Access packages** and then open the access package.

1. Click **Requests**.

1. Click the request you want to cancel

1. In the request details pane, click **Cancel request**.

## Copy My Access portal link

Most users in your directory can sign in to the My Access portal and automatically see a list of access packages they can request. However, for external business partner users that are not yet in your directory, you will need to send them a link that they can use to request an access package. As long as the access package is enabled for external users and you have a policy for the external user's directory, the external user can use the My Access portal link to request the access package.

**Prerequisite role:** User administrator, Catalog owner, or Access package manager

1. In the Azure portal, click **Azure Active Directory** and then click **Identity Governance**.

1. In the left menu, click **Access packages** and then open the access package.

1. On the Overview page, copy the **My Access portal link**.

    ![Access package overview - My Access portal link](./media/entitlement-management-shared/my-access-portal-link.png)

1. Email or send the link to your external business partner. They can share the link with their users to request the access package.

## Change the Hidden setting

Access packages are discoverable by default. This means that if a policy allows a user to request the access package, they will automatically see the access package listed in their My Access portal.

**Prerequisite role:** User administrator, Catalog owner, or Access package manager

1. In the Azure portal, click **Azure Active Directory** and then click **Identity Governance**.

1. In the left menu, click **Access packages** and then open the access package.

1. On the Overview page, click **Edit**.

1. Set the **Hidden** setting.

    If set to **No**, the access package will be listed in the user's My Access portal.

    If set to **Yes**, the access package will not be listed in the user's My Access portal. The only way a user can view the access package is if they have the direct **My Access portal link** to the access package.

## Delete

An access package can only be deleted if it has no active user assignments.

**Prerequisite role:** User administrator, Catalog owner, or Access package manager

1. In the Azure portal, click **Azure Active Directory** and then click **Identity Governance**.

1. In the left menu, click **Access packages** and then open the access package.

1. In the left menu, click **Assignments** and remove access for all users.

1. In the left menu, click **Overview** and then click **Delete**.

1. In the delete message that appears, click **Yes**.

## When are changes applied

In entitlement management, Azure AD will process bulk changes for assignment and resources in your access packages several times a day. So, if you make an assignment, or change the resource roles of your access package, it can take up to 24 hours for that change to be made in Azure AD, plus the amount of time it takes to propagate those changes to other Microsoft Online Services or connected SaaS applications. If your change affects just a few objects, the change will likely only take a few minutes to apply in Azure AD, after which other Azure AD components will then detect that change and update the SaaS applications. If your change affects thousands of objects, the change will take longer. For example, if you have an access package with 2 applications and 100 user assignments, and you decide to add a SharePoint site role to the access package, there may be a delay until all the users are part of that SharePoint site role. You can monitor the progress through the Azure AD audit log, the Azure AD provisioning log, and the SharePoint site audit logs.

## Next steps

- [Add a catalog owner or an access package manager](entitlement-management-delegate.md#add-a-catalog-owner-or-an-access-package-manager)
- [Request process and email notifications](entitlement-management-process.md)

Commit message:

761446 Cloud Distribution Groups EXO DLs cannot be changed in Azure AD

docs/id-governance/entitlement-management-access-package-edit.md, after:

---
title: Edit and manage an existing access package in Azure AD entitlement management (Preview) - Azure Active Directory
description: Learn how to edit and manage an existing access package in Azure Active Directory entitlement management (Preview).
services: active-directory
documentationCenter: ''
author: rolyon
manager: mtillman
editor: 
ms.service: active-directory
ms.workload: identity
ms.tgt_pltfrm: na
ms.devlang: na
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.subservice: compliance
ms.date: 05/16/2019
ms.author: rolyon
ms.reviewer: 
ms.collection: M365-identity-device-management


#Customer intent: As an administrator, I want detailed information about how I can edit an access package so that requestors have the resources they need to perform their job.

---
# Edit and manage an existing access package in Azure AD entitlement management (Preview)

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) entitlement management is currently in public preview.
> This preview version is provided without a service level agreement, and it's not recommended for production workloads. Certain features might not be supported or might have constrained capabilities.
> For more information, see [Supplemental Terms of Use for Microsoft Azure Previews](https://azure.microsoft.com/support/legal/preview-supplemental-terms/).

An access package enables you to do a one-time setup of resources and policies that automatically administers access for the life of the access package. As an access package manager, you can change the resources in an access package at any time without worrying about provisioning the user's access to the new resources, or removing their access from the previous resources. Policies can also be updated at any time, however, the policy changes only affect new accesses.

This article describes how to edit and manage existing access packages.

## Add resource roles

A resource role is a collection of permissions associated with a resource. The way you make resources available for users to request is by adding resource roles to your access package. You can add resource roles for groups, applications, and SharePoint sites.

**Prerequisite role:** User administrator, Catalog owner, or Access package manager

1. In the Azure portal, click **Azure Active Directory** and then click **Identity Governance**.

1. In the left menu, click **Access packages** and then open the access package.

1. In the left menu, click **Resource roles**.

1. Click **Add resource roles** to open the Add resource roles to access package page.

    ![Access package - Add resource roles](./media/entitlement-management-access-package-edit/resource-roles-add.png)

1. Depending on whether you want to add a group, application, or SharePoint site, perform the steps in one of the following resource role sections.

### Add a group resource role

You can have entitlement management automatically add users to a group when they are assigned an access package. 

- When a group is part of an access package and a user is assigned to that access package, the user is added to that group, if not already present.
- When a user's access package assignment expires, they are removed from the group, unless they currently have an assignment to another access package that includes that same group.

You can select any Office 365 group or Azure AD security group.  Administrators can add any group to a catalog; catalog owners can add any group to the catalog if they are owner of the group. Keep the following Azure AD constraints in mind when selecting a group:

- When a user, including a guest, is added as a member to a group, they can see all the other members of that group.
- Azure AD cannot change the membership of a group that was synchronized from Windows Server Active Directory using Azure AD Connect, or that was created in Exchange Online as a distribution group.  
- The membership of dynamic groups cannot be updated by adding or removing a member, so dynamic group memberships are not suitable for use with entitlement management.

1. On the **Add resource roles to access package** page, click **Groups** to open the Select groups pane.

1. Select the groups you want to include in the access package.

    ![Access package - Add resource roles - Select groups](./media/entitlement-management-access-package-edit/group-select.png)

1. Click **Select**.

1. In the **Role** list, select **Owner** or **Member**.

    You typically select the Member role. If you select the Owner role, that will allow users to add or remove other members or owners.

    ![Access package - Add resource role for a group](./media/entitlement-management-access-package-edit/group-role.png)

1. Click **Add**.

    Any users with existing assignments to the access package will automatically become members of this group when it is added.

### Add an application resource role

You can have Azure AD automatically assign users access to an Azure AD enterprise application, including both SaaS applications and your organization's applications federated to Azure AD, when a user is assigned an access package. For applications that integrate with Azure AD through federated single sign-on, Azure AD will issue federation tokens for users assigned to the application.

Applications can have multiple roles. When adding an application to an access package, if that application has more than one role, you will need to specify the appropriate role for those users.  If you are developing applications, you can read more about how those roles are provided to your applications in the article on how to [configure the role claim issued in the SAML token](../develop/active-directory-enterprise-app-role-management.md).

Once an application role is part of an access package:

- When a user is assigned that access package, the user is added to that application role, if not already present.
- When a user's access package assignment expires, their access will be removed from the application, unless they have an assignment to another access package that includes that application role.

Here are some considerations when selecting an application:

- Applications may also have groups assigned to their roles as well.  You can choose to add a group in place of an application role in an access package, however then the application will not be visible to the user as part of the access package in the My Access portal.

1. On the **Add resource roles to access package** page, click **Applications** to open the Select applications pane.

1. Select the applications you want to include in the access package.

    ![Access package - Add resource roles - Select applications](./media/entitlement-management-access-package-edit/application-select.png)

1. Click **Select**.

1. In the **Role** list, select an application role.

    ![Access package - Add resource role for an application](./media/entitlement-management-access-package-edit/application-role.png)

1. Click **Add**.

    Any users with existing assignments to the access package will automatically be given access to this application when it is added.

### Add a SharePoint site resource role

Azure AD can automatically assign users access to a SharePoint Online site or SharePoint Online site collection when they are assigned an access package.

1. On the **Add resource roles to access package** page, click **SharePoint sites** to open the Select SharePoint Online sites pane.

1. Select the SharePoint Online sites you want to include in the access package.

    ![Access package - Add resource roles - Select SharePoint Online sites](./media/entitlement-management-access-package-edit/sharepoint-site-select.png)

1. Click **Select**.

1. In the **Role** list, select a SharePoint Online site role.

    ![Access package - Add resource role for a SharePoint Online site](./media/entitlement-management-access-package-edit/sharepoint-site-role.png)

1. Click **Add**.

    Any users with existing assignments to the access package will automatically be given access to this SharePoint Online site when it is added.

## Remove resource roles

**Prerequisite role:** User administrator, Catalog owner, or Access package manager

1. In the Azure portal, click **Azure Active Directory** and then click **Identity Governance**.

1. In the left menu, click **Access packages** and then open the access package.

1. In the left menu, click **Resource roles**.

1. In the list of resource roles, find the resource role you want to remove.

1. Click the ellipsis (**...**) and then click **Remove resource role**.

    Any users with existing assignments to the access package will automatically have their access revoked to this resource role when it is removed.

## Add a new policy

The way you specify who can request an access package is to create a policy. You can create multiple policies for a single access package if you want to allow different sets of users to be granted assignments with different approval and expiration settings. A single policy cannot be used to assign internal and external users to the same access package. However, you can create two policies in the same access package -- one for internal users and one for external users. If there are multiple policies that apply to a user, they will be prompted at the time of their request to select the policy they would like to be assigned to.

The following diagram shows the high-level process to create a policy for an existing access package.

![Create a policy process](./media/entitlement-management-access-package-edit/policy-process.png)

**Prerequisite role:** User administrator, Catalog owner, or Access package manager

1. In the Azure portal, click **Azure Active Directory** and then click **Identity Governance**.

1. In the left menu, click **Access packages** and then open the access package.

1. Click **Policies** and then **Add policy**.

1. Type a name and a description for the policy.

    ![Create policy with name and description](./media/entitlement-management-access-package-edit/policy-name-description.png)

1. Based on your selection for **Users who can request access**, perform the steps in one of the following policy sections.

[!INCLUDE [Entitlement management policy](../../../includes/active-directory-entitlement-management-policy.md)]

## Edit an existing policy

You can edit a policy at any time. If you change the expiration date for a policy, the expiration date for requests that are already in a pending approval or approved state will not change.

**Prerequisite role:** User administrator, Catalog owner, or Access package manager

1. In the Azure portal, click **Azure Active Directory** and then click **Identity Governance**.

1. In the left menu, click **Access packages** and then open the access package.

1. Click **Policies** and then click the policy you want to edit.

    The **Policy details** pane opens at the bottom of the page.

    ![Access package - Policy details pane](./media/entitlement-management-access-package-edit/policy-details.png)

1. Click **Edit** to edit the policy.

    ![Access package - Edit policy](./media/entitlement-management-access-package-edit/policy-edit.png)

1. When finished, click **Update**.

## Directly assign a user

In some cases, you might want to directly assign specific users to an access package so that users don't have to go through the process of requesting the access package. To directly assign users, the access package must have a policy that allows administrator direct assignments.

**Prerequisite role:** User administrator, Catalog owner, or Access package manager

1. In the Azure portal, click **Azure Active Directory** and then click **Identity Governance**.

1. In the left menu, click **Access packages** and then open the access package.

1. In the left menu, click **Assignments**.

1. Click **New assignment** to open Add user to access package.

    ![Assignments - Add user to access package](./media/entitlement-management-access-package-edit/assignments-add-user.png)

1. Click **Add users** to select the users you want to assign the access package to.

1. In the **Select policy** list, select a policy that has the [None (administrator direct assignments only)](#policy-none-administrator-direct-assignments-only) setting.

    If this access package does not have this type of policy, you can click **Create new policy** to add one.

1. Set the date and time you want the selected users' assignment to start and end. If an end date is not provided, the policy's expiration settings will be used.

1. Optionally provide a justification for your direct assignment for record keeping.

1. Click **Add** to directly assign the selected users to the access package.

    After a few moments, click **Refresh** to see the users in the Assignments list.

## View who has an assignment

**Prerequisite role:** User administrator, Catalog owner, or Access package manager

1. In the Azure portal, click **Azure Active Directory** and then click **Identity Governance**.

1. In the left menu, click **Access packages** and then open the access package.

1. Click **Assignments** to see a list of active assignments.

1. Click a specific assignment to see additional details.

1. To see a list of assignments that did not have all resource roles properly provisioned, click the filter status and select **Delivering**.

    You can see additional details on delivery errors by locating the user's corresponding request on the **Requests** page.

1. To see expired assignments, click the filter status and select **Expired**.

1. To download a CSV file of the filtered list, click **Download**.

## View requests

**Prerequisite role:** User administrator, Catalog owner, or Access package manager

1. In the Azure portal, click **Azure Active Directory** and then click **Identity Governance**.

1. In the left menu, click **Access packages** and then open the access package.

1. Click **Requests**.

1. Click a specific request to see additional details.

## View a request's delivery errors

**Prerequisite role:** User administrator, Catalog owner, or Access package manager

1. In the Azure portal, click **Azure Active Directory** and then click **Identity Governance**.

1. In the left menu, click **Access packages** and then open the access package.

1. Click **Requests**.

1. Select the request you want to view.

    If the request has any delivery errors, the request status will be **Undelivered** and the substatus will be **Partially delivered**.

    If there are any delivery errors, in the request's detail pane, there will be a count of delivery errors.

1. Click the count to see all of the request's delivery errors.

## Cancel a pending request

You can only cancel a pending request that has not yet been delivered.

**Prerequisite role:** User administrator, Catalog owner, or Access package manager

1. In the Azure portal, click **Azure Active Directory** and then click **Identity Governance**.

1. In the left menu, click **Access packages** and then open the access package.

1. Click **Requests**.

1. Click the request you want to cancel

1. In the request details pane, click **Cancel request**.

## Copy My Access portal link

Most users in your directory can sign in to the My Access portal and automatically see a list of access packages they can request. However, for external business partner users that are not yet in your directory, you will need to send them a link that they can use to request an access package. As long as the access package is enabled for external users and you have a policy for the external user's directory, the external user can use the My Access portal link to request the access package.

**Prerequisite role:** User administrator, Catalog owner, or Access package manager

1. In the Azure portal, click **Azure Active Directory** and then click **Identity Governance**.

1. In the left menu, click **Access packages** and then open the access package.

1. On the Overview page, copy the **My Access portal link**.

    ![Access package overview - My Access portal link](./media/entitlement-management-shared/my-access-portal-link.png)

1. Email or send the link to your external business partner. They can share the link with their users to request the access package.

## Change the Hidden setting

Access packages are discoverable by default. This means that if a policy allows a user to request the access package, they will automatically see the access package listed in their My Access portal.

**Prerequisite role:** User administrator, Catalog owner, or Access package manager

1. In the Azure portal, click **Azure Active Directory** and then click **Identity Governance**.

1. In the left menu, click **Access packages** and then open the access package.

1. On the Overview page, click **Edit**.

1. Set the **Hidden** setting.

    If set to **No**, the access package will be listed in the user's My Access portal.

    If set to **Yes**, the access package will not be listed in the user's My Access portal. The only way a user can view the access package is if they have the direct **My Access portal link** to the access package.

## Delete

An access package can only be deleted if it has no active user assignments.

**Prerequisite role:** User administrator, Catalog owner, or Access package manager

1. In the Azure portal, click **Azure Active Directory** and then click **Identity Governance**.

1. In the left menu, click **Access packages** and then open the access package.

1. In the left menu, click **Assignments** and remove access for all users.

1. In the left menu, click **Overview** and then click **Delete**.

1. In the delete message that appears, click **Yes**.

## When are changes applied

In entitlement management, Azure AD will process bulk changes for assignment and resources in your access packages several times a day. So, if you make an assignment, or change the resource roles of your access package, it can take up to 24 hours for that change to be made in Azure AD, plus the amount of time it takes to propagate those changes to other Microsoft Online Services or connected SaaS applications. If your change affects just a few objects, the change will likely only take a few minutes to apply in Azure AD, after which other Azure AD components will then detect that change and update the SaaS applications. If your change affects thousands of objects, the change will take longer. For example, if you have an access package with 2 applications and 100 user assignments, and you decide to add a SharePoint site role to the access package, there may be a delay until all the users are part of that SharePoint site role. You can monitor the progress through the Azure AD audit log, the Azure AD provisioning log, and the SharePoint site audit logs.

## Next steps

- [Add a catalog owner or an access package manager](entitlement-management-delegate.md#add-a-catalog-owner-or-an-access-package-manager)
- [Request process and email notifications](entitlement-management-process.md)
