docs/id-governance/microsoft-entra-id-governance-licensing-for-guest-users.md, before:

---
title: Microsoft Entra ID Governance licensing for guest users 
description: Learn how Microsoft Entra ID is licensed for guest users.
author: owinfreyatl
manager: dougeby
ms.service: entra-id-governance
ms.subservice: entitlement-management
ms.topic: reference
ms.date: 07/25/2025
ms.author: owinfrey
ms.reviewer: jercon
---

# Microsoft Entra ID Governance licensing for guest users

This article outlines the pricing structure for Microsoft Entra ID Governance for guests add-on and describes how to link your tenant to an Azure subscription to ensure correct billing and feature access.

## Monthly active users (MAU) billing model

Microsoft Entra ID Governance utilizes Monthly Active User (MAU) licensing for guest users which is different than licensing for employees. See [Microsoft Entra ID Governance licensing fundamentals](/entra/id-governance/licensing-fundamentals) for complete details on licensing for employees.

Under the guest billing model, guests are identified by a userType of **Guest** regardless of where the user authenticates. A userType of **Guest** is the default userType for all B2B invitation methods and can also be set by an Identity administrator. The bill for each month includes a record for each guest user with one or more governance actions in that month. See the Azure pricing page for pricing details.

## Billable governance features

Guest users are only billed when they actively use features that are exclusive to Microsoft Entra ID Governance. Features included with Microsoft Entra P2 aren't billed. Additionally, if a guest doesn't take any active governance-related action during a month—such as in cases where access was auto-assigned in a prior month—they won't be billed for that month.

You can identify actions that will be billed to the Microsoft Entra ID Governance for guests add-on by looking at your audit logs. Specifically, each billable action has these properties included:

- TargetId: object ID of the target user

- TargetUserType: Guest

- GovernanceLicenseFeatureUsed: True

The following table contains a list of currently billable actions for **guest users**. This list might change as additional features are added to Microsoft Entra ID Governance.


| Service  | Action | Billable event & API  | Audit Log Where TargetUserType is Guest and GovernanceLicenseFeatureUsed is True  |
|----------|----------|----------|----------|
| Entitlement Management  | [Request access package on-behalf-of other users](entitlement-management-request-behalf.md)  | Bill on successful request creation. User requests or updates an access package assignment on-behalf-of another user.<br><br> **API**<br> https://graph.microsoft.com/v1.0/identityGovernance/entitlementManagement/assignmentRequests when the requestor (manager) is extracted from the token, and the target object is determined by the ID of the direct employee who is receiving access.  | User requests access package assignment, Create access package assignment user update request   |
| Entitlement Management  | [Guest is assigned to an Microsoft Entra role assignment](entitlement-management-roles.md)  | Bill on successful request creation when a Microsoft Entra role is included in the access package.<br><br>**API**<br> https://graph.microsoft.com/v1.0/identityGovernance/entitlementManagement/assignmentRequests when the access package contains a Microsoft Entra role.   | User requests access package assignment, Create access package assignment user update request   |
| Entitlement Management  | [Sponsor policy is applied to assignment](entitlement-management-access-package-create.md)  | Bill on successful request creation when a sponsor is included as an approver in the access package policy.<br><br>**API**<br> https://graph.microsoft.com/v1.0/identityGovernance/entitlementManagement/assignmentRequests where a sponsor is included as an approver in the access package policy.  | User requests access package assignment, Create access package assignment user update request   |
| Entitlement Management  | [EM – PIM for groups](create-access-review-pim-for-groups.md) | Bill on successful request creation when a PIM group is included in the access package.<br><br>**API**<br> https://graph.microsoft.com/v1.0/identityGovernance/entitlementManagement/assignmentRequests when the access package contains a PIM group.  | User requests access package assignment, Create access package assignment user update request.  |
| Entitlement Management  | [Guest uses verified ID for request](entitlement-management-verified-id-settings.md)  | Bill on successful request creation when verified ID is required in the policy.<br><br>**API**<br> https://graph.microsoft.com/v1.0/identityGovernance/entitlementManagement/assignmentRequests when the access package policy requires a Verified ID.    | User requests access package assignment, Create access package assignment user update request.  |
| Entitlement Management  | [Guest policy assigned with custom extension](entitlement-management-logic-apps-integration.md) | Bill on successful request creation when a custom extension is included in the assignment policy.<br><br>**API**<br> https://graph.microsoft.com/v1.0/identityGovernance/entitlementManagement/assignmentRequests when a custom extension is included in the assignment policy.  | User requests access package assignment, Create access package assignment user update request.  |
| Entitlement Management| [Guest is granted an auto-assignment policy](entitlement-management-access-package-auto-assignment-policy.md)  | Bill on successful request creation with an auto-assignment policy.  | Entitlement Management creates access package assignment request for user.  |
| Entitlement Management  | [Directly assign any user](entitlement-management-access-package-assignments.md#directly-assign-any-user-preview)  | Bill on successful request creation when using directly assigning an access package to a user not yet in the directory.<br><br>**API**<br> https://graph.microsoft.com/v1.0/identityGovernance/entitlementManagement/assignmentRequests when using requestType "*AdminAdd*" for a user who doesn’t exist in the directory.  | Administrator directly assigns user to access package.  |
| Entitlement Management |[Mark guest as governed](entitlement-management-access-package-manage-lifecycle.md)  | Bill on conversion to governed user.<br><br>**API**<br> https://graph.microsoft.com/beta/identityGovernance/entitlementManagement/subjects where *"subjectLifecycle"* is set to "governed".  | Update access package user lifecycle. |
| Lifecycle Workflows   | [Workflow is run for guest](what-are-lifecycle-workflows.md) | Bill on workflow execution.<br>**API**<br> https://graph.microsoft.com/v1.0/identityGovernance/lifecycleWorkflows/workflows/{workflowId}/activate  | Workflow execution started for user.  |
| Access Reviews   | [Access Review – machine learning assisted access reviews](review-recommendations-access-reviews.md#user-to-group-affiliation) | Bill when guest user is included in review. <br><br>**API**<br> https://graph.microsoft.com/v1.0/identityGovernance/accessReviews/definitions where recommendation settings is enabled in a group review. | Available after 8/1/2025  |
| Access Reviews    | [Access Review – inactive users](review-recommendations-access-reviews.md#inactive-user-recommendations) | Bill when guest user is included in review.<br><br>**API**<br> https://graph.microsoft.com/v1.0/identityGovernance/accessReviews/definitions where inactive guest reviews are included in the policy for a group resource.  | Available after 8/1/2025  |


## Guest billing in multitenant organizations

Governance guest billing only applies for users with a userType of **guest**, so if Microsoft Entra ID Governance licensed member users are brought into additional organization tenants with a userType of **member**, they won't accrue to the billing meter.

If these users are brought in with a userType of **guest** they accrue to the meter, however you can avoid being charged by setting up
or joining a multitenant organization. If the guest user is from a participating organizational tenant, the guest won't accrue to the
billing meter. See [Set up a multitenant org in Microsoft 365](/microsoft-365/enterprise/set-up-multi-tenant-org?view=o365-worldwide).

## Billing examples

### Scenario 1: Automating access package assignments

**March**: 

- Contoso creates an autoassignment policy that assigns an access package to 500 guest users.

- Contoso IT runs the guest conversion API for another set of 500 guest users.

- Billing: For March, Contoso is billed for 1,000 total guest users: 500 users for the autoassignment policy and 500 users for the guest conversion API.  

**April**: 

- The 500 guest users who were auto-assigned an access package in March retain their assignments but aren't billed since there wasn't an explicit action taken on these users in April. 

- Additionally, Contoso IT runs an inactive access review on 100 guests.

- Billing: For April, Contoso is billed for 100 users for the inactive access review.  

### Scenario 2: Lifecycle workflow and access review for inactive users

**March**:

- Fabrikam executes a lifecycle workflow for 300 guest users.

- They also perform an access review for inactive users, targeting 100 of the same guests as before, plus a different set of 200 guests.

- Billing: For March, Fabrikam is billed for 300 users for the lifecycle workflow and 200 users for the inactive access review. Since 100 of the guest users already incurred a charge for the lifecycle workflow, they didn't incur any additional charge for the inactive user review, since each guest user will only be charged once for one or more governance actions in the month. 

**April**:

- From the second group of 200 guest users in March, 150 guests receive an auto-assigned access package that grants access to an app and have the same inactive user access review that was run in March, repeated in April.

- Billing: For April, Fabrikam is billed for 150 users and they aren't charged for the access package auto-assignment action, since these 150 guests have already been charged for April.

### Scenario 3: Access Reviews for inactive users and user-to-group affiliation 

**May**:

- Tailspin Toys creates an inactive guest access review for 200 users. 
- Tailspin creates a second access review for a security group with 300 guest users with the user-to-group affiliation feature enabled. 
- Billing: For May, Tailspin is billed for 500 users – 200 for the inactive guest access review and 300 for the review with user-to-group affiliation. 


## Guest user licensing FAQs

**Do I need to have a subscription to Microsoft Entra ID Governance or Microsoft Entra Suite if I only want to govern guests?**

Yes. While you don’t need a subscription for your guest users, you need to have at least one Microsoft Entra ID Governance or Microsoft Entra Suite license for an administrator in the tenant.

**I have been using access reviews and entitlement management features included in Microsoft Entra P2 for my guest users. Will I start getting billed for this usage?**

Governance features included with Microsoft Entra P2 including basic access reviews and entitlement management capabilities won't be
billed to the governance guest add-on. Only governance features that are exclusive to Microsoft Entra Suite or standalone Microsoft Entra ID Governance will be billed to the meter. See the billable tables action on this page for details.

**Does Governance guest billing apply to all guest users, including those within the first 50,000 Monthly Active Users (MAU)?**

Yes, there is no free tier for governance billing. Governance guest billing applies to all guest users, even those within the first 50,000 MAU.


## Related content

- [Microsoft Entra ID Governance licensing fundamentals](licensing-fundamentals.md)
- [Microsoft Entra ID Governance](identity-governance-overview.md)

Commit message:

Guest licensing in Microsoft Entra ID Updates

docs/id-governance/microsoft-entra-id-governance-licensing-for-guest-users.md, after:

---
title: Microsoft Entra ID Governance licensing for guest users 
description: Learn how Microsoft Entra ID is licensed for guest users.
author: owinfreyatl
manager: dougeby
ms.service: entra-id-governance
ms.subservice: entitlement-management
ms.topic: reference
ms.date: 07/25/2025
ms.author: owinfrey
ms.reviewer: jercon
---

# Microsoft Entra ID Governance licensing for guest users

This article outlines the pricing structure for Microsoft Entra ID Governance for guests add-on and describes how to link your tenant to an Azure subscription to ensure correct billing and feature access.

## Monthly active users (MAU) billing model

Microsoft Entra ID Governance utilizes Monthly Active User (MAU) licensing for guest users which is different than licensing for employees. See [Microsoft Entra ID Governance licensing fundamentals](/entra/id-governance/licensing-fundamentals) for complete details on licensing for employees.

Under the guest billing model, guests are identified by a userType of **Guest** regardless of where the user authenticates. A userType of **Guest** is the default userType for all B2B invitation methods and can also be set by an Identity administrator. The bill for each month includes a record for each guest user with one or more governance actions in that month. See the Azure pricing page for pricing details.

## Billable governance features

Guest users are only billed when they actively use features that are exclusive to Microsoft Entra ID Governance. Features included with Microsoft Entra P2 aren't billed. Additionally, if a guest doesn't take any active governance-related action during a month—such as in cases where access was auto-assigned in a prior month—they won't be billed for that month.

You can identify actions that will be billed to the Microsoft Entra ID Governance for guests add-on by looking at your audit logs. Specifically, each billable action has these properties included:

- TargetId: object ID of the target user

- TargetUserType: Guest

- GovernanceLicenseFeatureUsed: True

The following table contains a list of currently billable actions for **guest users**. This list might change as additional features are added to Microsoft Entra ID Governance.


| Service  | Action | Billable event & API  | Audit Log Where TargetUserType is Guest and GovernanceLicenseFeatureUsed is True  |
|----------|----------|----------|----------|
| Entitlement Management  | [Request access package on-behalf-of other users](entitlement-management-request-behalf.md)  | Bill on successful request creation. User requests or updates an access package assignment on-behalf-of another user.<br><br> **API**<br> https://graph.microsoft.com/v1.0/identityGovernance/entitlementManagement/assignmentRequests when the requestor (manager) is extracted from the token, and the target object is determined by the ID of the direct employee who is receiving access.  | User requests access package assignment, Create access package assignment user update request   |
| Entitlement Management  | [Guest is assigned to an Microsoft Entra role assignment](entitlement-management-roles.md)  | Bill on successful request creation when a Microsoft Entra role is included in the access package.<br><br>**API**<br> https://graph.microsoft.com/v1.0/identityGovernance/entitlementManagement/assignmentRequests when the access package contains a Microsoft Entra role.   | User requests access package assignment, Create access package assignment user update request   |
| Entitlement Management  | [Sponsor policy is applied to assignment](entitlement-management-access-package-create.md)  | Bill on successful request creation when a sponsor is included as an approver in the access package policy.<br><br>**API**<br> https://graph.microsoft.com/v1.0/identityGovernance/entitlementManagement/assignmentRequests where a sponsor is included as an approver in the access package policy.  | User requests access package assignment, Create access package assignment user update request   |
| Entitlement Management  | [EM – PIM for groups](create-access-review-pim-for-groups.md) | Bill on successful request creation when a PIM group is included in the access package.<br><br>**API**<br> https://graph.microsoft.com/v1.0/identityGovernance/entitlementManagement/assignmentRequests when the access package contains a PIM group.  | User requests access package assignment, Create access package assignment user update request.  |
| Entitlement Management  | [Guest uses verified ID for request](entitlement-management-verified-id-settings.md)  | Bill on successful request creation when verified ID is required in the policy.<br><br>**API**<br> https://graph.microsoft.com/v1.0/identityGovernance/entitlementManagement/assignmentRequests when the access package policy requires a Verified ID.    | User requests access package assignment, Create access package assignment user update request.  |
| Entitlement Management  | [Guest policy assigned with custom extension](entitlement-management-logic-apps-integration.md) | Bill on successful request creation when a custom extension is included in the assignment policy.<br><br>**API**<br> https://graph.microsoft.com/v1.0/identityGovernance/entitlementManagement/assignmentRequests when a custom extension is included in the assignment policy.  | User requests access package assignment, Create access package assignment user update request.  |
| Entitlement Management| [Guest is granted an auto-assignment policy](entitlement-management-access-package-auto-assignment-policy.md)  | Bill on successful request creation with an auto-assignment policy.  | Entitlement Management creates access package assignment request for user.  |
| Entitlement Management  | [Directly assign any user](entitlement-management-access-package-assignments.md#directly-assign-any-user-preview)  | Bill on successful request creation when using directly assigning an access package to a user not yet in the directory.<br><br>**API**<br> https://graph.microsoft.com/v1.0/identityGovernance/entitlementManagement/assignmentRequests when using requestType "*AdminAdd*" for a user who doesn’t exist in the directory.  | Administrator directly assigns user to access package.  |
| Entitlement Management |[Mark guest as governed](entitlement-management-access-package-manage-lifecycle.md)  | Bill on conversion to governed user.<br><br>**API**<br> https://graph.microsoft.com/beta/identityGovernance/entitlementManagement/subjects where *"subjectLifecycle"* is set to "governed".  | Update access package user lifecycle. |
| Lifecycle Workflows   | [Workflow is run for guest](what-are-lifecycle-workflows.md) | Bill on workflow execution.<br>**API**<br> https://graph.microsoft.com/v1.0/identityGovernance/lifecycleWorkflows/workflows/{workflowId}/activate  | Workflow execution started for user.  |
| Access Reviews   | [Access Review – machine learning assisted access reviews](review-recommendations-access-reviews.md#user-to-group-affiliation) | Bill when guest user is included in review. <br><br>**API**<br> https://graph.microsoft.com/v1.0/identityGovernance/accessReviews/definitions where recommendation settings is enabled in a group review. | Available after 8/1/2025  |
| Access Reviews    | [Access Review – inactive users](review-recommendations-access-reviews.md#inactive-user-recommendations) | Bill when guest user is included in review.<br><br>**API**<br> https://graph.microsoft.com/v1.0/identityGovernance/accessReviews/definitions where inactive guest reviews are included in the policy for a group resource.  | Available after 8/1/2025  |


## Guest billing in multitenant organizations

Governance guest billing only applies for users with a userType of **guest**, so if Microsoft Entra ID Governance licensed member users are brought into additional organization tenants with a userType of **member**, they won't accrue to the billing meter.

If these users are brought in with a userType of **guest** they accrue to the meter, however you can avoid being charged by setting up
or joining a multitenant organization. If the guest user is from a participating organizational tenant, the guest won't accrue to the
billing meter. See [Set up a multitenant org in Microsoft 365](/microsoft-365/enterprise/set-up-multi-tenant-org?view=o365-worldwide).

## Billing examples

### Scenario 1: Automating access package assignments

**March**: 

- Contoso creates an autoassignment policy that assigns an access package to 500 guest users.

- Contoso IT runs the guest conversion API for another set of 500 guest users.

- Billing: For March, Contoso is billed for 1,000 total guest users: 500 users for the autoassignment policy and 500 users for the guest conversion API.  

**April**: 

- The 500 guest users who were auto-assigned an access package in March retain their assignments but aren't billed since there wasn't an explicit action taken on these users in April. 

- Additionally, Contoso IT runs an inactive access review on 100 guests.

- Billing: For April, Contoso is billed for 100 users for the inactive access review.  

### Scenario 2: Lifecycle workflow and access review for inactive users

**March**:

- Fabrikam executes a lifecycle workflow for 300 guest users.

- They also perform an access review for inactive users, targeting 100 of the same guests as before, plus a different set of 200 guests.

- Billing: For March, Fabrikam is billed for 300 users for the lifecycle workflow and 200 users for the inactive access review. Since 100 of the guest users already incurred a charge for the lifecycle workflow, they didn't incur any additional charge for the inactive user review, since each guest user will only be charged once for one or more governance actions in the month. 

**April**:

- From the second group of 200 guest users in March, 150 guests receive an auto-assigned access package that grants access to an app and have the same inactive user access review that was run in March, repeated in April.

- Billing: For April, Fabrikam is billed for 150 users and they aren't charged for the access package auto-assignment action, since these 150 guests have already been charged for April.

### Scenario 3: Access Reviews for inactive users and user-to-group affiliation 

**May**:

- Tailspin Toys creates an inactive guest access review for 200 users. 
- Tailspin creates a second access review for a security group with 300 guest users with the user-to-group affiliation feature enabled. 
- Billing: For May, Tailspin is billed for 500 users – 200 for the inactive guest access review and 300 for the review with user-to-group affiliation. 


### Link your tenant to a subscription
 
Your tenants must be linked to an Azure subscription for proper billing and access to features. To link your tenant to a subscription, follow these steps.
 
1.  Sign in to the [Microsoft Entra admin center](https://entra.microsoft.com/) with an account that has at least the Contributor role within the subscription or a resource group within the subscription.
 
2. Select the directory you want to link: In the Microsoft Entra admin center toolbar, select the **Settings** icon in the portal toolbar. Then on the **Portal settings \| Directories + subscriptions** page, find your workforce tenant in the **Directory name** list, and then select **Switch**.
 
3.  Browse to **Entra ID** > **ID Governance** > **Dashboard**.
 
4.  On the governance dashboard, locate the guest governance panel and select **Get Started**.
 
5.  In the **Link a subscription** pane, select a **Subscription** and a **Resource group**. Then select **Turn on**.
 
After you complete these steps, your Azure subscription is billed based on your Azure Direct or Enterprise Agreement details, if applicable.
 
## What if I can't find a subscription?
 
If no subscriptions are available in the **Link a subscription** pane, here are some possible reasons:
 
- You don't have the appropriate permissions. Be sure to sign in with an Azure account that has at least the Contributor role within the subscription or a resource group within the subscription.
 
- A subscription exists, but it isn't associated with your directory yet. You can [associate an existing subscription to your tenant](../fundamentals/how-subscriptions-associated-directory.yml) and then repeat the steps for [linking it to your tenant](../external-id/external-identities-pricing.md#link-your-azure-ad-tenant-to-a-subscription).
 
- No subscription exists. In the **Link a subscription** pane, you can create a subscription by selecting **if you don't already have a subscription you may create one here**. After you create a new subscription, you'll need to [create a resource group](/azure/azure-resource-manager/management/manage-resource-groups-portal) in the new subscription, and then repeat the steps for [linking it to your tenant](../external-id/external-identities-pricing.md#link-your-azure-ad-tenant-to-a-subscription).
 
## Turn off guest billing
 
You can turn off governance guest billing by returning to the governance dashboard and selecting **Edit** on the guest governance panel. In the Edit Guest Access panel, select "Turn Off" to disable billing and Microsoft Entra ID Governance features for your guest users.

## Guest user licensing FAQs

**Do I need to have a subscription to Microsoft Entra ID Governance or Microsoft Entra Suite if I only want to govern guests?**

Yes. While you don’t need a subscription for your guest users, you need to have at least one Microsoft Entra ID Governance or Microsoft Entra Suite license for an administrator in the tenant.

**I have been using access reviews and entitlement management features included in Microsoft Entra P2 for my guest users. Will I start getting billed for this usage?**

Governance features included with Microsoft Entra P2 including basic access reviews and entitlement management capabilities won't be
billed to the governance guest add-on. Only governance features that are exclusive to Microsoft Entra Suite or standalone Microsoft Entra ID Governance will be billed to the meter. See the billable tables action on this page for details.

**Does Governance guest billing apply to all guest users, including those within the first 50,000 Monthly Active Users (MAU)?**

Yes, there is no free tier for governance billing. Governance guest billing applies to all guest users, even those within the first 50,000 MAU.


## Related content

- [Microsoft Entra ID Governance licensing fundamentals](licensing-fundamentals.md)
- [Microsoft Entra ID Governance](identity-governance-overview.md)
