---
title: Enable Microsoft Entra ID security defaults for free tenants
ms.author: joflore
author: MicrosoftGuyJFlo
ms.service: entra-id
ms.topic: include
ms.date: 03/04/2025
ms.author: joflore
ms.custom: Identity-Secure-Recommendation
# Category: Access control
# RiskLevel: High
# UserImpact: Medium
# ImplementationCost: Low
---
Enabling security defaults in Microsoft Entra is crucial for organizations with Microsoft Entra Free licenses to protect themselves from identity-related attacks. These attacks are increasingly common and can have devastating consequences, including unauthorized access to sensitive data, financial loss, and reputational damage. By enabling security defaults, organizations ensure that all users register for multifactor authentication (MFA), administrators use MFA, and legacy authentication protocols are blocked. This significantly reduces the risk of successful attacks, as more than 99% of common identity-related attacks are stopped by using MFA and blocking legacy authentication.

Security defaults provide a baseline level of protection at no extra cost, making it accessible for organizations of all sizes. Without these defaults, organizations might struggle to implement effective security measures, leaving them vulnerable to breaches. The consequences of a security breach can be severe, including legal liabilities, loss of customer trust, and long-term financial repercussions. By enabling security defaults, organizations can proactively safeguard their digital assets and maintain a robust security posture, ensuring that they are better prepared to face the ever-evolving threat landscape.

**Remediation action**

- [Enable security defaults in Microsoft Entra ID](/entra/fundamentals/security-defaults#enabling-security-defaults)
