docs/identity/enterprise-apps/whats-new-docs.md, before:

---
title: "What's new in Microsoft Entra application management"
description: "New and updated documentation for the Microsoft Entra application management."
ms.date: 08/09/2024
ms.service: entra-id
ms.subservice: enterprise-apps
ms.topic: whats-new
ms.author: jomondi
author: omondiatieno
manager: CelesteDG

#customer intent: As an IT admin responsible for managing applications in Microsoft Entra ID, I want to stay updated on new documentation and significant updates, so that I can effectively manage and troubleshoot application-related issues in the platform.
---

# Microsoft Entra application management: What's new

Welcome to what's new in Microsoft Entra application management documentation. This article lists new docs that have been added and those articles that have had significant updates in the last three months. To learn what's new with the application management service, see [What's new in Microsoft Entra ID](~/fundamentals/whats-new.md).

## July 2024

### Updated articles

- [Home Realm Discovery for an application](home-realm-discovery-policy.md) - Add end-user friendly guideline on domain confirmation dialog.

Reviewed the following articles to improve technical accuracy and clarity:

- [Manage access to an application](what-is-access-management.md).
- [Configure Datawiza Access Proxy for Microsoft Entra SSO and MFA for Outlook Web Access](datawiza-sso-mfa-to-owa.md).
- [Configure F5 BIG-IP Access Policy Manager for form-based SSO](f5-big-ip-forms-advanced.md).
- [Tutorial: Configure F5 BIG-IP Easy Button for Kerberos single sign-on](f5-big-ip-kerberos-easy-button.md).
- [Tutorial: Configure F5 BIG-IP Easy Button for SSO to SAP ERP](f5-big-ip-sap-erp-easy-button.md).
- [Integrate F5 BIG-IP with Microsoft Entra ID](f5-integration.md).

## June 2024

### Updated articles

- [Manage consent to applications and evaluate consent requests](manage-consent-requests.md) - Review to improve technical accuracy and clarity.

## May 2024

### Updated articles

- [Overview of the Microsoft Entra application gallery](overview-application-gallery.md) - Add information on provisioning agent and ZTNA alongside app proxy

Reviewed the following articles to improve technical accuracy and clarity:

- [Configure Datawiza Access Proxy for Microsoft Entra single sign-on and multifactor authentication for Outlook Web Access](datawiza-sso-mfa-to-owa.md).
- [User and admin consent in Microsoft Entra ID](user-admin-consent-overview.md).
- [View activity logs for application permissions](app-perms-audit-logs.md).

Commit message:

Whats new updates for August

docs/identity/enterprise-apps/whats-new-docs.md, after:

---
title: "What's new in Microsoft Entra application management"
description: "New and updated documentation for the Microsoft Entra application management."
ms.date: 09/02/2024
ms.service: entra-id
ms.subservice: enterprise-apps
ms.topic: whats-new
ms.author: jomondi
author: omondiatieno
manager: CelesteDG

#customer intent: As an IT admin responsible for managing applications in Microsoft Entra ID, I want to stay updated on new documentation and significant updates, so that I can effectively manage and troubleshoot application-related issues in the platform.
---

# Microsoft Entra application management: What's new

Welcome to what's new in Microsoft Entra application management documentation. This article lists new docs that have been added and those articles that have had significant updates in the last three months. To learn what's new with the application management service, see [What's new in Microsoft Entra ID](~/fundamentals/whats-new.md).

## August 2024

### Updated articles

Reviewed the following articles to improve technical accuracy and clarity:

- [SAML-based single sign-on: Configuration and Limitations](migrate-adfs-saml-based-sso.md).
- [Configure Microsoft Entra SAML token encryption](howto-saml-token-encryption.md).

## July 2024

### Updated articles

- [Home Realm Discovery for an application](home-realm-discovery-policy.md) - Add end-user friendly guideline on domain confirmation dialog.

Reviewed the following articles to improve technical accuracy and clarity:

- [Manage access to an application](what-is-access-management.md).
- [Configure Datawiza Access Proxy for Microsoft Entra SSO and MFA for Outlook Web Access](datawiza-sso-mfa-to-owa.md).
- [Configure F5 BIG-IP Access Policy Manager for form-based SSO](f5-big-ip-forms-advanced.md).
- [Tutorial: Configure F5 BIG-IP Easy Button for Kerberos single sign-on](f5-big-ip-kerberos-easy-button.md).
- [Tutorial: Configure F5 BIG-IP Easy Button for SSO to SAP ERP](f5-big-ip-sap-erp-easy-button.md).
- [Integrate F5 BIG-IP with Microsoft Entra ID](f5-integration.md).

## June 2024

### Updated articles

- [Manage consent to applications and evaluate consent requests](manage-consent-requests.md) - Review to improve technical accuracy and clarity.
