docs/identity/authentication/concept-mandatory-multifactor-authentication.md, before:

---
title: Mandatory Microsoft Entra multifactor authentication (MFA) 
description: Plan for mandatory multifactor authentication for users who sign in to Azure and other management portals.
ms.service: entra-id
ms.subservice: authentication
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.date: 08/21/2024
ms.author: justinha
author: justinha
manager: amycolannino
ms.reviewer: nashahid

# Customer intent: As an identity administrator, I want to plan for mandatory MFA for users who sign in to Azure portal.
---
# Planning for mandatory multifactor authentication for Azure and other administration portals 

At Microsoft, we're committed to providing our customers with the highest level of security. That's why, starting in 2024, we'll enforce mandatory multifactor authentication (MFA) for all Azure sign-in attempts. For more background about this requirement, check out our [blog post](https://aka.ms/azuremfablogpost). This topic covers which applications are affected and how to prepare for mandatory MFA. 

If you created a Microsoft Entra ID directory previously, you were assigned the [Global Administrator role](~/identity/role-based-access-control/permissions-reference#global-administrator.md). An email to notify Global Administrators about enforcement of mandatory MFA refers to the tenant ID of the directory. You can confirm the tenant ID on the Overview page in the [Microsoft Entra admin center](https://entra.microsoft.com). For more information about others ways Microsoft notifies Global Administrators, see [Notification channels](#notification-channels).

## Scope of enforcement 

The scope of enforcement includes which applications plan to enforce MFA, when enforcement is planned to occur, and which accounts have a mandatory MFA requirement.

### Applications 

| Application Name | App ID | Enforcement phase |
|------------------|---------------------------------------|------|
| [Azure portal](/azure/azure-portal/)     | c44b4083-3bb0-49c1-b47d-974e53cbdf3c  | Second half of 2024 |
| [Microsoft Entra admin center](https://aka.ms/MSEntraPortal) | c44b4083-3bb0-49c1-b47d-974e53cbdf3c | Second half of 2024 |
| [Microsoft Intune admin center](https://aka.ms/IntunePortal) | c44b4083-3bb0-49c1-b47d-974e53cbdf3c | Second half of 2024 |
| [Azure command-line interface (Azure CLI)](/cli/azure/) | 04b07795-8ddb-461a-bbee-02f9e1bf7b46 | Early 2025 |
| [Azure PowerShell](/powershell/azure/) | 1950a258-227b-4e31-a9cf-717495945fc2 | Early 2025 |
| [Azure mobile app](/azure/azure-portal/mobile-app/overview)  | 0c1307d4-29d6-4389-a11c-5cbe7f65d7fa | Early 2025 |
| [Infrastructure as Code (IaC) tools](/devops/deliver/what-is-infrastructure-as-code) | Use Azure CLI or Azure PowerShell IDs | Early 2025 | 

### Accounts 

All users who sign into the [applications](#applications) listed previously to perform any Create, Read, Update, or Delete (CRUD) operation will require MFA when the enforcement begins. End users who access application, websites, or services hosted on Azure, but don't sign into the listed applications, aren't required to use MFA. The authentication requirements for end users are controlled by the application, website, or service owner. 

Workload identities, such as managed identities and service principals, aren't impacted by MFA enforcement. If user identities sign in as a service account to run automation (including scripts or other automated tasks), those user identities need to sign in with MFA once enforcement begins. User identities aren't recommended for automation. You should migrate those user identities to [workload identities](~/workload-id/workload-identities-overview.md). 

Break glass or emergency access accounts are also required to sign in with MFA once enforcement begins. We recommend updating these accounts to use [passkey (FIDO2)](~/identity/authentication/how-to-enable-passkey-fido2.md) or configure [certificate-based authentication](~/identity/authentication/how-to-certificate-based-authentication.md) for MFA. Both methods satisfy the MFA requirement. 

## Enforcement phases 

The enforcement of MFA will roll out in two phases: 

- **Phase 1**: Starting in the second half of 2024, MFA will be required to sign in to the Azure portal, Microsoft Entra admin center, and Microsoft Intune admin center. The enforcement will gradually roll out to all tenants worldwide. This phase won't impact other Azure clients such as Azure CLI, Azure PowerShell, Azure mobile app, or IaC tools.  

- **Phase 2**: Beginning in early 2025, MFA enforcement gradually begins for sign in to Azure CLI, Azure PowerShell, Azure mobile app, and IaC tools. Some customers may use a user account in Microsoft Entra ID as a service account. It's recommended to migrate these user-based service accounts to [secure cloud based service accounts](/entra/architecture/secure-service-accounts) with [workload identities](~/workload-id/workload-identities-overview.md). 

## Notification channels 

Microsoft will notify all Microsoft Entra Global Administrators through the following channels: 

- Email: Global Administrators who have configured an email address will be informed by email of the upcoming MFA enforcement and the actions required to be prepared. The email refers to the tenant ID of Microsoft Entra ID. You can confirm the tenant ID on the Overview page in the [Microsoft Entra admin center](https://entra.microsoft.com).

- Service health notification: Global Administrators will receive a service health notification through the Azure portal, with the tracking ID of **4V20-VX0**. This notification contains the same information as the email. Global Administrators can also subscribe to receive service health notifications through email. 

- Portal notification: A notification appears in the Azure portal, Microsoft Entra admin center, and Microsoft Intune admin center when they sign in. The portal notification links to this topic for more information about the mandatory MFA enforcement. 

- Microsoft 365 message center: A message appears in the Microsoft 365 message center with the same information as the email and service health notification. 

## Prepare for multifactor authentication 

All users who access the admin portals and Azure clients listed in [applications](#applications) must be set up to use MFA. All users who access any administration portal should use MFA.

Use the resources below to set up MFA for your users: 

- Learn about [Microsoft Entra multifactor authentication](~/identity/authentication/concept-mfa-howitworks.md) and the different [authentication methods](~/identity/authentication/concept-authentication-methods.md) available for use. 
- Enable users for one or more [MFA methods](~/identity/authentication/concept-authentication-methods.md)
- Prefer more secure [phishing-resistant MFA methods](~/identity/authentication/phishing-resistant-authentication-videos.md) 
- If you don’t require MFA in your tenant today, there are several options available to set it up (listed in preferred order): 
  - Use [Conditional Access](~/identity/conditional-access/overview.md) policies (in [report-only mode](~/identity/conditional-access/concept-conditional-access-report-only.md) to start) targeting: 
    - All users 
      - While in report-only mode, don't configure exceptions. This configuration more closely mirrors the enforcement pattern of Microsoft Entra MFA program. 
    - [Microsoft administration portals](~/identity/conditional-access/concept-conditional-access-cloud-apps.md#microsoft-admin-portals) (includes portals in scope for this Microsoft Entra MFA enforcement) 
    - [Require multifactor authentication](~/identity/conditional-access/concept-conditional-access-grant.md#require-multifactor-authentication) or if you want more granular control, use [authentication strengths](~/identity/conditional-access/concept-conditional-access-grant.md#require-authentication-strength)
  - Enable [Security defaults](~/fundamentals/security-defaults.md)
- Review information to help configure and deploy MFA:
  - [Secure sign-in events with Microsoft Entra multifactor ](~/identity/authentication/tutorial-enable-azure-mfa.md)
  - [Plan a Microsoft Entra multifactor authentication deployment](~/identity/authentication/howto-mfa-getstarted.md)
  - Learn about [phishing-resistant MFA methods](~/identity/authentication/phishing-resistant-authentication-videos.md) in Microsoft Entra MFA
  - Use the [MFA wizard for Microsoft Entra ID](https://aka.ms/EntraIDMFAWizard)
- Use the resources below to help you identify which users are signing into Azure with and without MFA: 
  - Use [PowerShell](https://aka.ms/AzMFA) to export a list of users and their authentication methods 
  - Use the [Multifactor Authentication Gaps workbook](~/identity/monitoring-health/workbook-mfa-gaps.md) 
  - Use these application IDs in your queries: 
    - Azure portal: c44b4083-3bb0-49c1-b47d-974e53cbdf3c 
    - Azure CLI: 04b07795-8ddb-461a-bbee-02f9e1bf7b46 
    - Azure PowerShell: 1950a258-227b-4e31-a9cf-717495945fc2 
    - Azure mobile app: 0c1307d4-29d6-4389-a11c-5cbe7f65d7fa 

### External authentication methods and identity providers 

Support for external MFA solutions is in preview with [external authentication methods](https://aka.ms/EAMAdminDocs), and can be used to meet the MFA requirement. The legacy Conditional Access custom controls preview won't satisfy the MFA requirement. You should migrate to the external authentication methods preview to use an external solution with Microsoft Entra ID.  

If you're using a federated Identity Provider (IdP), such as Active Directory Federation Services, and your MFA provider is integrated directly with this federated IdP, the federated IdP must be configured to send an MFA claim. 

## Request more time to prepare for enforcement 

We understand that some customers may need more time to prepare for this MFA requirement. Microsoft allows grace periods for customers with complex environments or technical barriers. 

Between 8/15/2024 and 10/15/2024, Global Administrators can go to the [Azure portal](https://aka.ms/managemfaforazure) to postpone the start date of enforcement for their tenant to 3/15/2025. Global Administrators must have [elevated access](https://aka.ms/enableelevatedaccess) before postponing the start date of MFA enforcement on this page.  

Global Administrators must perform this action for every tenant for which they would like to postpone the start date of enforcement.  

By postponing the start date of enforcement, you take extra risk because accounts that access Microsoft services like the Azure portal are highly valuable targets for threat actors. We recommend all tenants set up MFA now to secure cloud resources.  

## Next steps

Learn about [Microsoft Entra multifactor authentication](~/identity/authentication/concept-mfa-howitworks.md) and the different [authentication methods](~/identity/authentication/concept-authentication-methods.md) available for use.

Commit message:

added to click Manage tenants if you have many

docs/identity/authentication/concept-mandatory-multifactor-authentication.md, after:

---
title: Mandatory Microsoft Entra multifactor authentication (MFA) 
description: Plan for mandatory multifactor authentication for users who sign in to Azure and other management portals.
ms.service: entra-id
ms.subservice: authentication
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.date: 08/21/2024
ms.author: justinha
author: justinha
manager: amycolannino
ms.reviewer: nashahid

# Customer intent: As an identity administrator, I want to plan for mandatory MFA for users who sign in to Azure portal.
---
# Planning for mandatory multifactor authentication for Azure and other administration portals 

At Microsoft, we're committed to providing our customers with the highest level of security. That's why, starting in 2024, we'll enforce mandatory multifactor authentication (MFA) for all Azure sign-in attempts. For more background about this requirement, check out our [blog post](https://aka.ms/azuremfablogpost). This topic covers which applications are affected and how to prepare for mandatory MFA. 

If you created a Microsoft Entra ID directory previously, you were assigned the [Global Administrator role](~/identity/role-based-access-control/permissions-reference#global-administrator.md). An email to notify Global Administrators about enforcement of mandatory MFA refers to the tenant ID of the directory. You can confirm the tenant ID on the Overview page in the [Microsoft Entra admin center](https://entra.microsoft.com). If you multiple tenants, click **Manage tenants** to see the tenant ID for each one. For more information about others ways Microsoft notifies Global Administrators, see [Notification channels](#notification-channels).

## Scope of enforcement 
 
The scope of enforcement includes which applications plan to enforce MFA, when enforcement is planned to occur, and which accounts have a mandatory MFA requirement.

### Applications 

| Application Name | App ID | Enforcement phase |
|------------------|---------------------------------------|------|
| [Azure portal](/azure/azure-portal/)     | c44b4083-3bb0-49c1-b47d-974e53cbdf3c  | Second half of 2024 |
| [Microsoft Entra admin center](https://aka.ms/MSEntraPortal) | c44b4083-3bb0-49c1-b47d-974e53cbdf3c | Second half of 2024 |
| [Microsoft Intune admin center](https://aka.ms/IntunePortal) | c44b4083-3bb0-49c1-b47d-974e53cbdf3c | Second half of 2024 |
| [Azure command-line interface (Azure CLI)](/cli/azure/) | 04b07795-8ddb-461a-bbee-02f9e1bf7b46 | Early 2025 |
| [Azure PowerShell](/powershell/azure/) | 1950a258-227b-4e31-a9cf-717495945fc2 | Early 2025 |
| [Azure mobile app](/azure/azure-portal/mobile-app/overview)  | 0c1307d4-29d6-4389-a11c-5cbe7f65d7fa | Early 2025 |
| [Infrastructure as Code (IaC) tools](/devops/deliver/what-is-infrastructure-as-code) | Use Azure CLI or Azure PowerShell IDs | Early 2025 | 

### Accounts 

All users who sign into the [applications](#applications) listed previously to perform any Create, Read, Update, or Delete (CRUD) operation will require MFA when the enforcement begins. End users who access application, websites, or services hosted on Azure, but don't sign into the listed applications, aren't required to use MFA. The authentication requirements for end users are controlled by the application, website, or service owner. 

Workload identities, such as managed identities and service principals, aren't impacted by MFA enforcement. If user identities sign in as a service account to run automation (including scripts or other automated tasks), those user identities need to sign in with MFA once enforcement begins. User identities aren't recommended for automation. You should migrate those user identities to [workload identities](~/workload-id/workload-identities-overview.md). 

Break glass or emergency access accounts are also required to sign in with MFA once enforcement begins. We recommend updating these accounts to use [passkey (FIDO2)](~/identity/authentication/how-to-enable-passkey-fido2.md) or configure [certificate-based authentication](~/identity/authentication/how-to-certificate-based-authentication.md) for MFA. Both methods satisfy the MFA requirement. 

## Enforcement phases 

The enforcement of MFA will roll out in two phases: 

- **Phase 1**: Starting in the second half of 2024, MFA will be required to sign in to the Azure portal, Microsoft Entra admin center, and Microsoft Intune admin center. The enforcement will gradually roll out to all tenants worldwide. This phase won't impact other Azure clients such as Azure CLI, Azure PowerShell, Azure mobile app, or IaC tools.  

- **Phase 2**: Beginning in early 2025, MFA enforcement gradually begins for sign in to Azure CLI, Azure PowerShell, Azure mobile app, and IaC tools. Some customers may use a user account in Microsoft Entra ID as a service account. It's recommended to migrate these user-based service accounts to [secure cloud based service accounts](/entra/architecture/secure-service-accounts) with [workload identities](~/workload-id/workload-identities-overview.md). 

## Notification channels 

Microsoft will notify all Microsoft Entra Global Administrators through the following channels: 

- Email: Global Administrators who have configured an email address will be informed by email of the upcoming MFA enforcement and the actions required to be prepared. The email refers to the tenant ID of Microsoft Entra ID. You can confirm the tenant ID on the Overview page in the [Microsoft Entra admin center](https://entra.microsoft.com).

- Service health notification: Global Administrators will receive a service health notification through the Azure portal, with the tracking ID of **4V20-VX0**. This notification contains the same information as the email. Global Administrators can also subscribe to receive service health notifications through email. 

- Portal notification: A notification appears in the Azure portal, Microsoft Entra admin center, and Microsoft Intune admin center when they sign in. The portal notification links to this topic for more information about the mandatory MFA enforcement. 

- Microsoft 365 message center: A message appears in the Microsoft 365 message center with the same information as the email and service health notification. 

## Prepare for multifactor authentication 

All users who access the admin portals and Azure clients listed in [applications](#applications) must be set up to use MFA. All users who access any administration portal should use MFA.

Use the resources below to set up MFA for your users: 

- Learn about [Microsoft Entra multifactor authentication](~/identity/authentication/concept-mfa-howitworks.md) and the different [authentication methods](~/identity/authentication/concept-authentication-methods.md) available for use. 
- Enable users for one or more [MFA methods](~/identity/authentication/concept-authentication-methods.md)
- Prefer more secure [phishing-resistant MFA methods](~/identity/authentication/phishing-resistant-authentication-videos.md) 
- If you don’t require MFA in your tenant today, there are several options available to set it up (listed in preferred order): 
  - Use [Conditional Access](~/identity/conditional-access/overview.md) policies (in [report-only mode](~/identity/conditional-access/concept-conditional-access-report-only.md) to start) targeting: 
    - All users 
      - While in report-only mode, don't configure exceptions. This configuration more closely mirrors the enforcement pattern of Microsoft Entra MFA program. 
    - [Microsoft administration portals](~/identity/conditional-access/concept-conditional-access-cloud-apps.md#microsoft-admin-portals) (includes portals in scope for this Microsoft Entra MFA enforcement) 
    - [Require multifactor authentication](~/identity/conditional-access/concept-conditional-access-grant.md#require-multifactor-authentication) or if you want more granular control, use [authentication strengths](~/identity/conditional-access/concept-conditional-access-grant.md#require-authentication-strength)
  - Enable [Security defaults](~/fundamentals/security-defaults.md)
- Review information to help configure and deploy MFA:
  - [Secure sign-in events with Microsoft Entra multifactor ](~/identity/authentication/tutorial-enable-azure-mfa.md)
  - [Plan a Microsoft Entra multifactor authentication deployment](~/identity/authentication/howto-mfa-getstarted.md)
  - Learn about [phishing-resistant MFA methods](~/identity/authentication/phishing-resistant-authentication-videos.md) in Microsoft Entra MFA
  - Use the [MFA wizard for Microsoft Entra ID](https://aka.ms/EntraIDMFAWizard)
- Use the resources below to help you identify which users are signing into Azure with and without MFA: 
  - Use [PowerShell](https://aka.ms/AzMFA) to export a list of users and their authentication methods 
  - Use the [Multifactor Authentication Gaps workbook](~/identity/monitoring-health/workbook-mfa-gaps.md) 
  - Use these application IDs in your queries: 
    - Azure portal: c44b4083-3bb0-49c1-b47d-974e53cbdf3c 
    - Azure CLI: 04b07795-8ddb-461a-bbee-02f9e1bf7b46 
    - Azure PowerShell: 1950a258-227b-4e31-a9cf-717495945fc2 
    - Azure mobile app: 0c1307d4-29d6-4389-a11c-5cbe7f65d7fa 

### External authentication methods and identity providers 

Support for external MFA solutions is in preview with [external authentication methods](https://aka.ms/EAMAdminDocs), and can be used to meet the MFA requirement. The legacy Conditional Access custom controls preview won't satisfy the MFA requirement. You should migrate to the external authentication methods preview to use an external solution with Microsoft Entra ID.  

If you're using a federated Identity Provider (IdP), such as Active Directory Federation Services, and your MFA provider is integrated directly with this federated IdP, the federated IdP must be configured to send an MFA claim. 

## Request more time to prepare for enforcement 

We understand that some customers may need more time to prepare for this MFA requirement. Microsoft allows grace periods for customers with complex environments or technical barriers. 

Between 8/15/2024 and 10/15/2024, Global Administrators can go to the [Azure portal](https://aka.ms/managemfaforazure) to postpone the start date of enforcement for their tenant to 3/15/2025. Global Administrators must have [elevated access](https://aka.ms/enableelevatedaccess) before postponing the start date of MFA enforcement on this page.  

Global Administrators must perform this action for every tenant for which they would like to postpone the start date of enforcement.  

By postponing the start date of enforcement, you take extra risk because accounts that access Microsoft services like the Azure portal are highly valuable targets for threat actors. We recommend all tenants set up MFA now to secure cloud resources.  

## Next steps

Learn about [Microsoft Entra multifactor authentication](~/identity/authentication/concept-mfa-howitworks.md) and the different [authentication methods](~/identity/authentication/concept-authentication-methods.md) available for use.
