docs/identity/authentication/entra-certificate-based-authentication-get-started.md, before:

---
title: Certificate-based authentication - Azure Active Directory
description: Learn how to configure certificate-based authentication in your environment

services: active-directory
ms.service: active-directory
ms.subservice: authentication
ms.topic: how-to
ms.date: 11/21/2019

ms.author: justinha
author: justinha
manager: karenhoran
ms.reviewer: annaba

ms.collection: M365-identity-device-management
ms.custom: has-adal-ref
---
# Get started with certificate-based authentication in Azure Active Directory

Certificate-based authentication enables you to be authenticated by Azure Active Directory with a client certificate on a Windows, Android, or iOS device when connecting your Exchange online account to:

- Microsoft mobile applications such as Microsoft Outlook and Microsoft Word
- Exchange ActiveSync (EAS) clients

Configuring this feature eliminates the need to enter a username and password combination into certain mail and Microsoft Office applications on your mobile device.

This topic:

- Provides you with the steps to configure and utilize certificate-based authentication for users of tenants in Office 365 Enterprise, Business, Education, and US Government plans. This feature is available in preview in Office 365 China, US Government Defense, and US Government Federal plans.
- Assumes that you already have a [public key infrastructure (PKI)](/previous-versions/windows/it-pro/windows-server-2012-R2-and-2012/hh831740(v=ws.11)) and [AD FS](../hybrid/how-to-connect-fed-whatis.md) configured.

## Requirements

To configure certificate-based authentication, the following statements must be true:

- Certificate-based authentication (CBA) is only supported for Federated environments for browser applications, native clients using modern authentication (ADAL), or MSAL libraries. The one exception is Exchange Active Sync (EAS) for Exchange Online (EXO), which can be used for  federated and managed accounts.
- The root certificate authority and any intermediate certificate authorities must be configured in Azure Active Directory.
- Each certificate authority must have a certificate revocation list (CRL) that can be referenced via an internet-facing URL.
- You must have at least one certificate authority configured in Azure Active Directory. You can find related steps in the [Configure the certificate authorities](#step-2-configure-the-certificate-authorities) section.
- For Exchange ActiveSync clients, the client certificate must have the user's routable email address in Exchange online in either the Principal Name or the RFC822 Name value of the Subject Alternative Name field. Azure Active Directory maps the RFC822 value to the Proxy Address attribute in the directory.
- Your client device must have access to at least one certificate authority that issues client certificates.
- A client certificate for client authentication must have been issued to your client.

>[!IMPORTANT]
>The maximum size of a CRL for Azure Active Directory to successfully download and cache is 20MB, and the time required to download the CRL must not exceed 10 seconds.  If Azure Active Directory can't download a CRL, certificate based authentications using certificates issued by the corresponding CA will fail. Best practices to ensure CRL files are within size constraints are to keep certificate lifetimes to within reasonable limits and to clean up expired certificates.

## Step 1: Select your device platform

As a first step, for the device platform you care about, you need to review the following:

- The Office mobile applications support
- The specific implementation requirements

The related information exists for the following device platforms:

- [Android](active-directory-certificate-based-authentication-android.md)
- [iOS](active-directory-certificate-based-authentication-ios.md)

## Step 2: Configure the certificate authorities

To configure your certificate authorities in Azure Active Directory, for each certificate authority, upload the following:

* The public portion of the certificate, in *.cer* format
* The internet-facing URLs where the Certificate Revocation Lists (CRLs) reside

The schema for a certificate authority looks as follows:

```csharp
    class TrustedCAsForPasswordlessAuth
    {
       CertificateAuthorityInformation[] certificateAuthorities;
    }

    class CertificateAuthorityInformation

    {
        CertAuthorityType authorityType;
        X509Certificate trustedCertificate;
        string crlDistributionPoint;
        string deltaCrlDistributionPoint;
        string trustedIssuer;
        string trustedIssuerSKI;
    }

    enum CertAuthorityType
    {
        RootAuthority = 0,
        IntermediateAuthority = 1
    }
```

For the configuration, you can use the [Azure Active Directory PowerShell Version 2](/powershell/azure/active-directory/install-adv2):

1. Start Windows PowerShell with administrator privileges.
2. Install the Azure AD module version [2.0.0.33](https://www.powershellgallery.com/packages/AzureAD/2.0.0.33) or higher.

   ```powershell
       Install-Module -Name AzureAD –RequiredVersion 2.0.0.33
   ```

As a first configuration step, you need to establish a connection with your tenant. As soon as a connection to your tenant exists, you can review, add, delete, and modify the trusted certificate authorities that are defined in your directory.

### Connect

To establish a connection with your tenant, use the [Connect-AzureAD](/powershell/module/azuread/connect-azuread) cmdlet:

```azurepowershell
    Connect-AzureAD
```

### Retrieve

To retrieve the trusted certificate authorities that are defined in your directory, use the [Get-AzureADTrustedCertificateAuthority](/powershell/module/azuread/get-azureadtrustedcertificateauthority) cmdlet.

```azurepowershell
    Get-AzureADTrustedCertificateAuthority
```

### Add

To create a trusted certificate authority, use the [New-AzureADTrustedCertificateAuthority](/powershell/module/azuread/new-azureadtrustedcertificateauthority) cmdlet and set the **crlDistributionPoint** attribute to a correct value:

```azurepowershell
    $cert=Get-Content -Encoding byte "[LOCATION OF THE CER FILE]"
    $new_ca=New-Object -TypeName Microsoft.Open.AzureAD.Model.CertificateAuthorityInformation
    $new_ca.AuthorityType=0
    $new_ca.TrustedCertificate=$cert
    $new_ca.crlDistributionPoint="<CRL Distribution URL>"
    New-AzureADTrustedCertificateAuthority -CertificateAuthorityInformation $new_ca
```

### Remove

To remove a trusted certificate authority, use the [Remove-AzureADTrustedCertificateAuthority](/powershell/module/azuread/remove-azureadtrustedcertificateauthority) cmdlet:

```azurepowershell
    $c=Get-AzureADTrustedCertificateAuthority
    Remove-AzureADTrustedCertificateAuthority -CertificateAuthorityInformation $c[2]
```

### Modify

To modify a trusted certificate authority, use the [Set-AzureADTrustedCertificateAuthority](/powershell/module/azuread/set-azureadtrustedcertificateauthority) cmdlet:

```azurepowershell
    $c=Get-AzureADTrustedCertificateAuthority
    $c[0].AuthorityType=1
    Set-AzureADTrustedCertificateAuthority -CertificateAuthorityInformation $c[0]
```

## Step 3: Configure revocation

To revoke a client certificate, Azure Active Directory fetches the certificate revocation list (CRL) from the URLs uploaded as part of certificate authority information and caches it. The last publish timestamp (**Effective Date** property) in the CRL is used to ensure the CRL is still valid. The CRL is periodically referenced to revoke access to certificates that are a part of the list.

If a more instant revocation is required (for example, if a user loses a device), the authorization token of the user can be invalidated. To invalidate the authorization token, set the **StsRefreshTokenValidFrom** field for this particular user using Windows PowerShell. You must update the **StsRefreshTokenValidFrom** field for each user you want to revoke access for.

To ensure that the revocation persists, you must set the **Effective Date** of the CRL to a date after the value set by **StsRefreshTokenValidFrom** and ensure the certificate in question is in the CRL.

The following steps outline the process for updating and invalidating the authorization token by setting the **StsRefreshTokenValidFrom** field.

1. Connect with admin credentials to the MSOL service:

   ```powershell
           $msolcred = get-credential
            connect-msolservice -credential $msolcred
   ```

2. Retrieve the current StsRefreshTokensValidFrom value for a user:

   ```powershell
           $user = Get-MsolUser -UserPrincipalName test@yourdomain.com`
           $user.StsRefreshTokensValidFrom
   ```

3. Configure a new StsRefreshTokensValidFrom value for the user equal to the current timestamp:

   ```powershell
           Set-MsolUser -UserPrincipalName test@yourdomain.com -StsRefreshTokensValidFrom ("03/05/2016")
   ```

The date you set must be in the future. If the date is not in the future, the **StsRefreshTokensValidFrom** property is not set. If the date is in the future, **StsRefreshTokensValidFrom** is set to the current time (not the date indicated by Set-MsolUser command).

## Step 4: Test your configuration

### Testing your certificate

As a first configuration test, you should try to sign in to [Outlook Web Access](https://outlook.office365.com) or [SharePoint Online](https://microsoft.sharepoint.com) using your **on-device browser**.

If your sign-in is successful, then you know that:

- The user certificate has been provisioned to your test device
- AD FS is configured correctly

### Testing Office mobile applications

1. On your test device, install an Office mobile application (for example, OneDrive).
1. Launch the application.
1. Enter your username, and then select the user certificate you want to use.

You should be successfully signed in.

### Testing Exchange ActiveSync client applications

To access Exchange ActiveSync (EAS) via certificate-based authentication, an EAS profile containing the client certificate must be available to the application.

The EAS profile must contain the following information:

- The user certificate to be used for authentication

- The EAS endpoint (for example, outlook.office365.com)

An EAS profile can be configured and placed on the device through the utilization of Mobile device management (MDM) such as Intune or by manually placing the certificate in the EAS profile on the device.

### Testing EAS client applications on Android

1. Configure an EAS profile in the application that satisfies the requirements in the prior section.
2. Open the application, and verify that mail is synchronizing.

## Next steps

[Additional information about certificate-based authentication on Android devices.](active-directory-certificate-based-authentication-android.md)

[Additional information about certificate-based authentication on iOS devices.](active-directory-certificate-based-authentication-ios.md)

Commit message:

added links to cloud-native CBA

docs/identity/authentication/entra-certificate-based-authentication-get-started.md, after:

---
title: Certificate-based authentication with federation - Azure Active Directory
description: Learn how to configure certificate-based authentication with federation in your environment

services: active-directory
ms.service: active-directory
ms.subservice: authentication
ms.topic: how-to
ms.date: 01/31/2022

ms.author: justinha
author: justinha
manager: karenhoran
ms.reviewer: annaba

ms.collection: M365-identity-device-management
ms.custom: has-adal-ref
---
# Get started with certificate-based authentication in Azure Active Directory with federation

Certificate-based authentication (CBA) with federation enables you to be authenticated by Azure Active Directory with a client certificate on a Windows, Android, or iOS device when connecting your Exchange online account to:

- Microsoft mobile applications such as Microsoft Outlook and Microsoft Word
- Exchange ActiveSync (EAS) clients

Configuring this feature eliminates the need to enter a username and password combination into certain mail and Microsoft Office applications on your mobile device.

>[!NOTE]
>As an alternative, organizations can deploy cloud-native CBA against Azure Active Directory without needing federation. For more information, see [Overview of cloud-native certificate-based authentication against Azure Active Directory](concept-cloud-native-certificate-based-authentication.md).

This topic:

- Provides you with the steps to configure and utilize CBA for users of tenants in Office 365 Enterprise, Business, Education, and US Government plans. 
- Assumes that you already have a [public key infrastructure (PKI)](/previous-versions/windows/it-pro/windows-server-2012-R2-and-2012/hh831740(v=ws.11)) and [AD FS](../hybrid/how-to-connect-fed-whatis.md) configured.

## Requirements

To configure CBA with federation, the following statements must be true:

- CBA with federation is only supported for Federated environments for browser applications, native clients using modern authentication (ADAL), or MSAL libraries. The one exception is Exchange Active Sync (EAS) for Exchange Online (EXO), which can be used for federated and managed accounts. To configure cloud-native CBA without needing federation, see [How to configure cloud-native certificate-based authentication in Azure Active Directory](how-to-certificate-based-authentication.md).
- The root certificate authority and any intermediate certificate authorities must be configured in Azure Active Directory.
- Each certificate authority must have a certificate revocation list (CRL) that can be referenced via an internet-facing URL.
- You must have at least one certificate authority configured in Azure Active Directory. You can find related steps in the [Configure the certificate authorities](#step-2-configure-the-certificate-authorities) section.
- For Exchange ActiveSync clients, the client certificate must have the user's routable email address in Exchange online in either the Principal Name or the RFC822 Name value of the Subject Alternative Name field. Azure Active Directory maps the RFC822 value to the Proxy Address attribute in the directory.
- Your client device must have access to at least one certificate authority that issues client certificates.
- A client certificate for client authentication must have been issued to your client.

>[!IMPORTANT]
>The maximum size of a CRL for Azure Active Directory to successfully download and cache is 20MB, and the time required to download the CRL must not exceed 10 seconds.  If Azure Active Directory can't download a CRL, certificate based authentications using certificates issued by the corresponding CA will fail. Best practices to ensure CRL files are within size constraints are to keep certificate lifetimes to within reasonable limits and to clean up expired certificates.

## Step 1: Select your device platform

As a first step, for the device platform you care about, you need to review the following:

- The Office mobile applications support
- The specific implementation requirements

The related information exists for the following device platforms:

- [Android](active-directory-certificate-based-authentication-android.md)
- [iOS](active-directory-certificate-based-authentication-ios.md)

## Step 2: Configure the certificate authorities

To configure your certificate authorities in Azure Active Directory, for each certificate authority, upload the following:

* The public portion of the certificate, in *.cer* format
* The internet-facing URLs where the Certificate Revocation Lists (CRLs) reside

The schema for a certificate authority looks as follows:

```csharp
    class TrustedCAsForPasswordlessAuth
    {
       CertificateAuthorityInformation[] certificateAuthorities;
    }

    class CertificateAuthorityInformation

    {
        CertAuthorityType authorityType;
        X509Certificate trustedCertificate;
        string crlDistributionPoint;
        string deltaCrlDistributionPoint;
        string trustedIssuer;
        string trustedIssuerSKI;
    }

    enum CertAuthorityType
    {
        RootAuthority = 0,
        IntermediateAuthority = 1
    }
```

For the configuration, you can use the [Azure Active Directory PowerShell Version 2](/powershell/azure/active-directory/install-adv2):

1. Start Windows PowerShell with administrator privileges.
2. Install the Azure AD module version [2.0.0.33](https://www.powershellgallery.com/packages/AzureAD/2.0.0.33) or higher.

   ```powershell
       Install-Module -Name AzureAD –RequiredVersion 2.0.0.33
   ```

As a first configuration step, you need to establish a connection with your tenant. As soon as a connection to your tenant exists, you can review, add, delete, and modify the trusted certificate authorities that are defined in your directory.

### Connect

To establish a connection with your tenant, use the [Connect-AzureAD](/powershell/module/azuread/connect-azuread) cmdlet:

```azurepowershell
    Connect-AzureAD
```

### Retrieve

To retrieve the trusted certificate authorities that are defined in your directory, use the [Get-AzureADTrustedCertificateAuthority](/powershell/module/azuread/get-azureadtrustedcertificateauthority) cmdlet.

```azurepowershell
    Get-AzureADTrustedCertificateAuthority
```

### Add

To create a trusted certificate authority, use the [New-AzureADTrustedCertificateAuthority](/powershell/module/azuread/new-azureadtrustedcertificateauthority) cmdlet and set the **crlDistributionPoint** attribute to a correct value:

```azurepowershell
    $cert=Get-Content -Encoding byte "[LOCATION OF THE CER FILE]"
    $new_ca=New-Object -TypeName Microsoft.Open.AzureAD.Model.CertificateAuthorityInformation
    $new_ca.AuthorityType=0
    $new_ca.TrustedCertificate=$cert
    $new_ca.crlDistributionPoint="<CRL Distribution URL>"
    New-AzureADTrustedCertificateAuthority -CertificateAuthorityInformation $new_ca
```

### Remove

To remove a trusted certificate authority, use the [Remove-AzureADTrustedCertificateAuthority](/powershell/module/azuread/remove-azureadtrustedcertificateauthority) cmdlet:

```azurepowershell
    $c=Get-AzureADTrustedCertificateAuthority
    Remove-AzureADTrustedCertificateAuthority -CertificateAuthorityInformation $c[2]
```

### Modify

To modify a trusted certificate authority, use the [Set-AzureADTrustedCertificateAuthority](/powershell/module/azuread/set-azureadtrustedcertificateauthority) cmdlet:

```azurepowershell
    $c=Get-AzureADTrustedCertificateAuthority
    $c[0].AuthorityType=1
    Set-AzureADTrustedCertificateAuthority -CertificateAuthorityInformation $c[0]
```

## Step 3: Configure revocation

To revoke a client certificate, Azure Active Directory fetches the certificate revocation list (CRL) from the URLs uploaded as part of certificate authority information and caches it. The last publish timestamp (**Effective Date** property) in the CRL is used to ensure the CRL is still valid. The CRL is periodically referenced to revoke access to certificates that are a part of the list.

If a more instant revocation is required (for example, if a user loses a device), the authorization token of the user can be invalidated. To invalidate the authorization token, set the **StsRefreshTokenValidFrom** field for this particular user using Windows PowerShell. You must update the **StsRefreshTokenValidFrom** field for each user you want to revoke access for.

To ensure that the revocation persists, you must set the **Effective Date** of the CRL to a date after the value set by **StsRefreshTokenValidFrom** and ensure the certificate in question is in the CRL.

The following steps outline the process for updating and invalidating the authorization token by setting the **StsRefreshTokenValidFrom** field.

1. Connect with admin credentials to the MSOL service:

   ```powershell
           $msolcred = get-credential
            connect-msolservice -credential $msolcred
   ```

2. Retrieve the current StsRefreshTokensValidFrom value for a user:

   ```powershell
           $user = Get-MsolUser -UserPrincipalName test@yourdomain.com`
           $user.StsRefreshTokensValidFrom
   ```

3. Configure a new StsRefreshTokensValidFrom value for the user equal to the current timestamp:

   ```powershell
           Set-MsolUser -UserPrincipalName test@yourdomain.com -StsRefreshTokensValidFrom ("03/05/2016")
   ```

The date you set must be in the future. If the date is not in the future, the **StsRefreshTokensValidFrom** property is not set. If the date is in the future, **StsRefreshTokensValidFrom** is set to the current time (not the date indicated by Set-MsolUser command).

## Step 4: Test your configuration

### Testing your certificate

As a first configuration test, you should try to sign in to [Outlook Web Access](https://outlook.office365.com) or [SharePoint Online](https://microsoft.sharepoint.com) using your **on-device browser**.

If your sign-in is successful, then you know that:

- The user certificate has been provisioned to your test device
- AD FS is configured correctly

### Testing Office mobile applications

1. On your test device, install an Office mobile application (for example, OneDrive).
1. Launch the application.
1. Enter your username, and then select the user certificate you want to use.

You should be successfully signed in.

### Testing Exchange ActiveSync client applications

To access Exchange ActiveSync (EAS) via certificate-based authentication, an EAS profile containing the client certificate must be available to the application.

The EAS profile must contain the following information:

- The user certificate to be used for authentication

- The EAS endpoint (for example, outlook.office365.com)

An EAS profile can be configured and placed on the device through the utilization of Mobile device management (MDM) such as Intune or by manually placing the certificate in the EAS profile on the device.

### Testing EAS client applications on Android

1. Configure an EAS profile in the application that satisfies the requirements in the prior section.
2. Open the application, and verify that mail is synchronizing.

## Next steps

[Additional information about certificate-based authentication on Android devices.](active-directory-certificate-based-authentication-android.md)

[Additional information about certificate-based authentication on iOS devices.](active-directory-certificate-based-authentication-ios.md)
