docs/identity/authentication/how-to-enable-authenticator-passkey.md, before:

---
title: How to enable passkeys in Microsoft Authenticator for Microsoft Entra ID (preview)
description: Learn about how to enable passkeys in Microsoft Authenticator for Microsoft Entra ID.

ms.service: entra-id
ms.subservice: authentication
ms.topic: how-to
ms.date: 05/07/2024

ms.author: justinha
author: justinha
manager: amycolannino
ms.reviewer: mjsantani

# Customer intent: As a Microsoft Entra Administrator, I want to learn how to enable and enforce passkeys in Authenticator sign in for end users.
---
# Enable passkeys in Microsoft Authenticator (preview)

This article lists steps to enable and enforce use of passkeys in Authenticator for Microsoft Entra ID. First, you update the Authentication methods policy to allow end users to register and sign in with passkeys in Authenticator. Then you can use Conditional Access authentication strengths policies to enforce passkey sign-in when users access a sensitive resource.

## Requirements

- [Microsoft Entra multifactor authentication (MFA)](howto-mfa-getstarted.md)
- Android 14 and later or iOS 17 and later
- An active internet connection on any device that is part of the passkey registration/authentication process
- For cross-device registration/authentication, both devices must have Bluetooth enabled

> [!NOTE]
> Users need to install the latest version of Authenticator for Android or iOS to use a passkey. 

To learn more about where you can use passkeys in Authenticator to sign in, see [Support for FIDO2 authentication with Microsoft Entra ID](fido2-compatibility.md).

## Enable passkeys in Authenticator in the admin center

The **Microsoft Authenticator** policy doesn't give you the option to enable passkeys in Authenticator. Instead, to enable passkeys in Authenticator, you must edit the **FIDO2 security key** Authentication methods policy. 

1. Sign in to the [Microsoft Entra admin center](https://entra.microsoft.com) as at least an [Authentication Policy Administrator](~/identity/role-based-access-control/permissions-reference.md#authentication-policy-administrator).
1. Browse to **Protection** > **Authentication methods** > **Authentication method policy**.
1. Under the method **FIDO2 security key**, select **All users** or **Add groups** to select specific groups. *Only security groups are supported*.
1. On the **Configure** tab, set:
   - **Allow self-service set up** to **Yes**
   - **Enforce attestation** to **No**
   - **Enforce key restrictions** to **Yes**
   - **Restrict specific keys** to **Allow**
   - Select **Microsoft Authenticator (preview)** if the checkbox is displayed in the admin center. This setting automatically populates the Authenticator app AAGUIDs for you in the key restriction list. Otherwise, you can manually add the following AAGUIDs to enable the Authenticator passkey preview:

      - **Authenticator for Android:** de1e552d-db1d-4423-a619-566b625cdc84
      - **Authenticator for iOS:** 90a3ccdf-635c-4729-a248-9b709135078f

   :::image type="content" border="true" source="media/how-to-enable-authenticator-passkey/optional-settings.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing Microsoft Authenticator enabled for passkey."lightbox="media/how-to-enable-authenticator-passkey/optional-settings.png":::

  >[!WARNING]
  >Key restrictions set the usability of specific passkeys for both registration and authentication. If you change key restrictions and remove an AAGUID that you previously allowed, users who previously registered an allowed method can no longer use it for sign-in. If your organization doesn't currently enforce key restrictions and already has active passkey usage, you should collect the AAGUIDs of the keys being used today. Add them to the Allow list, along with the Authenticator AAGUIDs, to enable this preview. This task can be done with an automated script that analyzes logs such as registration details and sign-in logs.

The following list describes other optional settings:

**General**

- **Allow self-service set up** should remain set to **Yes**. If set to no, your users aren't able to register a passkey through MySecurityInfo, even if enabled by Authentication Methods policy.  
- **Enforce attestation** Should be set to **No** for preview. Attestation support is planned for General Availability.

**Key Restriction Policy**

- **Enforce key restrictions** should be set to **Yes** only if your organization wants to only allow or disallow certain passkeys, which are identified by their Authenticator Attestation GUID (AAGUID). If you want, you can manually enter the Authenticator app AAGUIDs or specifically restrict only Android or iOS devices. Otherwise, you can manually add the following AAGUIDs to enable the Authenticator passkey preview:

  - **Authenticator for Android:** de1e552d-db1d-4423-a619-566b625cdc84
  - **Authenticator for iOS:** 90a3ccdf-635c-4729-a248-9b709135078f

After you finish the configuration, select **Save**.

## Enable passkeys in Authenticator using Graph Explorer

In addition to using the Microsoft Entra admin center, you can also enable passkeys in Authenticator by using Graph Explorer. Those assigned at least the [Authentication Policy Administrator](../role-based-access-control/permissions-reference.md#authentication-policy-administrator) role can update the Authentication methods policy to allow the AAGUIDs for Authenticator. 

To configure the policy by using Graph Explorer:

1. Sign in to [Graph Explorer](https://aka.ms/ge) and consent to the **Policy.Read.All** and **Policy.ReadWrite.AuthenticationMethod** permissions.

1. Retrieve the Authentication methods policy: 

   ```json
   GET https://graph.microsoft.com/beta/authenticationMethodsPolicy/authenticationMethodConfigurations/FIDO2
   ```

1. To disable attestation enforcement and enforce key restrictions to only allow AAGUIDs for Microsoft Authenticator, perform a PATCH operation using the following request body:

   ```json
   PATCH https://graph.microsoft.com/beta/authenticationMethodsPolicy/authenticationMethodConfigurations/FIDO2
   
   Request Body:
   {
       "@odata.type": "#microsoft.graph.fido2AuthenticationMethodConfiguration",
       "isAttestationEnforced": false,
       "keyRestrictions": {
           "isEnforced": true,
           "enforcementType": "allow",
           "aaGuids": [
               "90a3ccdf-635c-4729-a248-9b709135078f",
               "de1e552d-db1d-4423-a619-566b625cdc84"
   
               <insert previous AAGUIDs here to keep them stored in policy>
           ]
       }
   }
   ```

1. Make sure that the passkey (FIDO2) policy is updated properly.

   ```json
   GET https://graph.microsoft.com/beta/authenticationMethodsPolicy/authenticationMethodConfigurations/FIDO2
   ```


## Delete a passkey 

To remove a passkey associated with a user account, delete the key from the user’s authentication methods.

1. Sign in to the [Microsoft Entra admin center](https://entra.microsoft.com) and search for the user whose passkey needs to be removed.
1. Select **Authentication methods** > right-click **FIDO2 security key** and select **Delete**. 

    ![Screenshot of View Authentication Method details.](media/howto-authentication-passwordless-deployment/security-key-view-details.png)

> [!NOTE]
> Users also need to remove the passkey in Authenticator on their device.

## Enforce sign-in with passkeys in Authenticator 

To make users sign in with a passkey when they access a sensitive resource, use the built-in phishing-resistant authentication strength, or create a custom authentication strength by following these steps:

1. Sign in to the [Microsoft Entra admin center](https://entra.microsoft.com) as a Conditional Access Administrator.
1. Browse to **Protection** > **Authentication methods** > **Authentication strengths**.
1. Select **New authentication strength**.
1. Provide a descriptive **Name** for your new authentication strength.
1. Optionally provide a **Description**.
1. Select **Passkeys (FIDO2)** and then select **Advanced options**.
1. Add AAGUIDs for passkeys in Authenticator:

   - **Authenticator for Android:** de1e552d-db1d-4423-a619-566b625cdc84
   - **Authenticator for iOS:** 90a3ccdf-635c-4729-a248-9b709135078f

1. Choose **Next** and review the policy configuration.

## Next steps

[Support for passkey in Windows](/windows/security/identity-protection/passkeys)

Commit message:

added note to clear checkbox for Authapp AAGUIDs

docs/identity/authentication/how-to-enable-authenticator-passkey.md, after:

---
title: How to enable passkeys in Microsoft Authenticator for Microsoft Entra ID (preview)
description: Learn about how to enable passkeys in Microsoft Authenticator for Microsoft Entra ID.

ms.service: entra-id
ms.subservice: authentication
ms.topic: how-to
ms.date: 08/09/2024

ms.author: justinha
author: justinha
manager: amycolannino
ms.reviewer: mjsantani

# Customer intent: As a Microsoft Entra Administrator, I want to learn how to enable and enforce passkeys in Authenticator sign in for end users.
---
# Enable passkeys in Microsoft Authenticator (preview)

This article lists steps to enable and enforce use of passkeys in Authenticator for Microsoft Entra ID. First, you update the Authentication methods policy to allow end users to register and sign in with passkeys in Authenticator. Then you can use Conditional Access authentication strengths policies to enforce passkey sign-in when users access a sensitive resource.

## Requirements

- [Microsoft Entra multifactor authentication (MFA)](howto-mfa-getstarted.md)
- Android 14 and later or iOS 17 and later
- An active internet connection on any device that is part of the passkey registration/authentication process
- For cross-device registration/authentication, both devices must have Bluetooth enabled

> [!NOTE]
> Users need to install the latest version of Authenticator for Android or iOS to use a passkey. 

To learn more about where you can use passkeys in Authenticator to sign in, see [Support for FIDO2 authentication with Microsoft Entra ID](fido2-compatibility.md).

## Enable passkeys in Authenticator in the admin center

The **Microsoft Authenticator** policy doesn't give you the option to enable passkeys in Authenticator. Instead, to enable passkeys in Authenticator, you must edit the **FIDO2 security key** Authentication methods policy. 

1. Sign in to the [Microsoft Entra admin center](https://entra.microsoft.com) as at least an [Authentication Policy Administrator](~/identity/role-based-access-control/permissions-reference.md#authentication-policy-administrator).
1. Browse to **Protection** > **Authentication methods** > **Authentication method policy**.
1. Under the method **Passkey (FIDO2)**, select **All users** or **Add groups** to select specific groups. *Only security groups are supported*.
1. On the **Configure** tab, set:
   - **Allow self-service set up** to **Yes**. If set to **No**, users can't register a passkey by using [Security info](https://aka.ms/mysecurityinfo), even if passkeys are enabled by Authentication methods policy.  
   - **Enforce attestation** to **No** for preview. Attestation support is planned for General Availability.
   - **Enforce key restrictions** to **Yes** only if your organization wants to only allow or disallow certain passkeys, which are identified by their Authenticator Attestation GUID (AAGUID).
   - **Restrict specific keys** to **Allow**.
   - Select **Microsoft Authenticator (Preview)** to automatically add the Authenticator app AAGUIDs to the key restriction list, or manually add the following Authenticator Attestation GUIDs (AAGUIDs) to enable the Authenticator passkey preview:

      - **Authenticator for Android:** de1e552d-db1d-4423-a619-566b625cdc84
      - **Authenticator for iOS:** 90a3ccdf-635c-4729-a248-9b709135078f
   
     If you turn off key retrictions, make sure you clear the **Microsoft Authenticator (Preview)** checkbox so that users aren’t prompted to set up a passkey in the Authenticator app in [Security info](https://aka.ms/mysecurityinfo).

     >[!NOTE]
     >If you don't enforce key restrictions and don't select **Microsoft Authenticator (Preview)**, users won't see an option to set up passkeys in the Authenticator when they go to [Security info](https://aka.ms/mysecurityinfo). Depending upon their operating system and browser, users who continue with passkey (FIDO2) registration might see a WebAuthn flow with a QR code to set up passkey in Authenticator. This is because when no key restrictions are set, any device-bound passkey can be set up by using the WebAuthn flow. To explicitly disable passkeys in the Authenticator app, use the key restrictions to block the Authenticator app AAGUIDs.

   :::image type="content" border="true" source="media/how-to-enable-authenticator-passkey/optional-settings.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing Microsoft Authenticator enabled for passkey."lightbox="media/how-to-enable-authenticator-passkey/optional-settings.png":::

   >[!WARNING]
   >Key restrictions set the usability of specific passkeys for both registration and authentication. If you change key restrictions and remove an AAGUID that you previously allowed, users who previously registered an allowed method can no longer use it for sign-in. If your organization doesn't currently enforce key restrictions and already has active passkey usage, you should collect the AAGUIDs of the keys being used today. Add them to the Allow list, along with the Authenticator AAGUIDs, to enable this preview. This task can be done with an automated script that analyzes logs, such as registration details and sign-in logs.

1. After you finish the configuration, select **Save**.

## Enable passkeys in Authenticator using Graph Explorer

In addition to using the Microsoft Entra admin center, you can also enable passkeys in Authenticator by using Graph Explorer. Those assigned at least the [Authentication Policy Administrator](../role-based-access-control/permissions-reference.md#authentication-policy-administrator) role can update the Authentication methods policy to allow the AAGUIDs for Authenticator. 

To configure the policy by using Graph Explorer:

1. Sign in to [Graph Explorer](https://aka.ms/ge) and consent to the **Policy.Read.All** and **Policy.ReadWrite.AuthenticationMethod** permissions.

1. Retrieve the Authentication methods policy: 

   ```json
   GET https://graph.microsoft.com/beta/authenticationMethodsPolicy/authenticationMethodConfigurations/FIDO2
   ```

1. To disable attestation enforcement and enforce key restrictions to only allow AAGUIDs for Microsoft Authenticator, perform a PATCH operation using the following request body:

   ```json
   PATCH https://graph.microsoft.com/beta/authenticationMethodsPolicy/authenticationMethodConfigurations/FIDO2
   
   Request Body:
   {
       "@odata.type": "#microsoft.graph.fido2AuthenticationMethodConfiguration",
       "isAttestationEnforced": false,
       "keyRestrictions": {
           "isEnforced": true,
           "enforcementType": "allow",
           "aaGuids": [
               "90a3ccdf-635c-4729-a248-9b709135078f",
               "de1e552d-db1d-4423-a619-566b625cdc84"
   
               <insert previous AAGUIDs here to keep them stored in policy>
           ]
       }
   }
   ```

1. Make sure that the passkey (FIDO2) policy is updated properly.

   ```json
   GET https://graph.microsoft.com/beta/authenticationMethodsPolicy/authenticationMethodConfigurations/FIDO2
   ```


## Delete a passkey 

To remove a passkey associated with a user account, delete the key from the user’s authentication methods.

1. Sign in to the [Microsoft Entra admin center](https://entra.microsoft.com) and search for the user whose passkey needs to be removed.
1. Select **Authentication methods** > right-click **FIDO2 security key** and select **Delete**. 

    ![Screenshot of View Authentication Method details.](media/howto-authentication-passwordless-deployment/security-key-view-details.png)

> [!NOTE]
> Users also need to remove the passkey in Authenticator on their device.

## Enforce sign-in with passkeys in Authenticator 

To make users sign in with a passkey when they access a sensitive resource, use the built-in phishing-resistant authentication strength, or create a custom authentication strength by following these steps:

1. Sign in to the [Microsoft Entra admin center](https://entra.microsoft.com) as a Conditional Access Administrator.
1. Browse to **Protection** > **Authentication methods** > **Authentication strengths**.
1. Select **New authentication strength**.
1. Provide a descriptive **Name** for your new authentication strength.
1. Optionally provide a **Description**.
1. Select **Passkeys (FIDO2)** and then select **Advanced options**.
1. Add AAGUIDs for passkeys in Authenticator:

   - **Authenticator for Android:** de1e552d-db1d-4423-a619-566b625cdc84
   - **Authenticator for iOS:** 90a3ccdf-635c-4729-a248-9b709135078f

1. Choose **Next** and review the policy configuration.

## Next steps

[Support for passkey in Windows](/windows/security/identity-protection/passkeys)
